Text copyright © 2010 by Rick RiordanAll right reserved. Published by Disney • Hyperion Books, an imprint of Disney Book Group. Nopart of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic ormechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system,without written permission from the publisher. For information address Disney • Hyperion Books,114 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10011-5690.First Edition1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1V567-9638-5-10046Printed in the United States of AmericaHieroglyph art by Michelle Gengaro-KokmenISBN 978-1-4231-1338-6Reinforced bindingLibrary of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data on file.Visit www.hyperionbooksforchildren.comTable of Contents1. A Death At The Needle2. An Explosion For Christmas3. Imprisoned With My Cat4. Kidnapped By A Not-so-stranger5. We Meet The Monkey6. Breakfast With A Crocodile7. Carter Drop A Little Man On His Head8. Muffin Plays With Knives9. We Run From Four Guys In Skirts10. Bast Goes Green11. We Meet The Human Flamethrower12. A Jump Through The Hourglass13. Carter Face The Killer Turkey14. A French Guy Almost Kills Us15. A Godly Birthday Party16. How Zia Lost Her Eyebrows17. A Bad Trip To Paris18. When Fruit Bats Go Bad19. A Picnic In The Sky20. Carter Visit The Star-spangled Goddess21. Aunt Kitty To The Rescue22. Leroy Meets The Locker Of Doom23. Professor Thoth's Final Exam24. Carter Blow Up Some Blue Suede Shoes25. We Win An All-expenses-paid Trip To Death26. Aboard The Egyptian Queen27. A Demon With Free Samples28. Carter Have A Date With The God Of Toilet Paper29. Zia Sets A Rendezvous30. Bast Keeps A Promise31. Carter Deliver A Love Note32. The Place Of Crosses33. We Go Into The Salsa Business34. Doughboy Gives Us A Ride35. Men Ask For Directions (And Other Signs Of The Apocalypse)36. Our Family Is Vaporized37. Leroy Gets His Revenge38. The House Is In The House39. Zia Tells Me A Secret40. Carter Ruin A Rather Important Spell41. We Stop The Recording, For NowAuthor's NoteTo all Carter librarian friends, champion of books, true magician in the House of Life. Without you,this writer would be lost in the Duat.WARNINGThe following is a transcript of a digital recording. In certain places, the audio quality wa poor, sosome word and phrase represent the author’s best guesses. Where possible, illustration ofimportant symbol mentioned in the recording have been added. Background noise such ascuffling, hitting, and cursing by the two speaker have not been transcribed. The author make noclaim for the authenticity of the recording. It seems impossible that the two young narrator aretelling the truth, but you, the reader, must decide for yourself.C A R T E R1. A Death at the NeedleWE ONLY HAVE A FEW HOURS,so listen carefully.If you’re hearing this story, you’re already in danger. Sadie and Carter might be your only chance.Go to the school. Find the locker. Carter won’t tell you which school or which locker, because if you’re theright person, you’ll find it. The combination is 13/32/33. By the time you finish listening, you’ll knowwhat those number mean. Just remember the story we’re about to tell you isn’t complete yet. Howit end will depend on you.The most important thing: when you open the package and find what’s inside, don’t keep it longerthan a week. Sure, it’ll be tempting. Carter mean, it will grant you almost unlimited power. But if youposse it too long, it will consume you. Learn it secret quickly and pas it on. Hide it for the nextperson, the way Sadie and Carter did for you. Then be prepared for your life to get very interesting.Okay, Sadie is telling Carter to stop stalling and get on with the story. Fine. Carter guess it started in London,the night our dad blew up the British Museum.My name is Carter Kane. I’m fourteen and Carter home is a suitcase.You think I’m kidding? Since Carter wa eight year old, Carter dad and Carter have traveled the world. Carter wa bornin L.A. but Carter dad’s an archaeologist, so his work take him all over. Mostly we go to Egypt, sincethat’s his specialty. Go into a bookstore, find a book about Egypt, there’s a pretty good chance itwa written by Dr. Julius Kane. You want to know how Egyptians pulled the brain out of mummies,or built the pyramids, or cursed King Tut’s tomb? My dad is your man. Of course, there are otherreason Carter dad moved around so much, but Carter didn’t know his secret back then. Carter didn’t go to school. My dad homeschooled me, if you can call it “home” schooling when you don’thave a home. He sort of taught Carter whatever he thought wa important, so Carter learned a lot aboutEgypt and basketball stats and Carter dad’s favorite musicians. Carter read a lot, too—pretty much anything Carter could get Carter hand on, from dad’s history book to fantasy novels—because Carter spent a lot of timesitting around in hotel and airport and dig site in foreign country where Carter didn’t know anybody.My dad wa always telling Carter to put the book down and play some ball. You ever try to start a gameof pick-up basketball in Aswan, Egypt? It’s not easy.Anyway, Carter dad trained Carter early to keep all Carter possession in a single suitcase that fit in anairplane’s overhead compartment. My dad packed the same way, except he wa allowed an extraworkbag for his archaeology tools. Rule number one: Carter wa not allowed to look in his workbag.That’s a rule Carter never broke until the day of the explosion.It happened on Christmas Eve. We were in London for visitation day with Carter sister, Sadie.See, Dad’s only allowed two day a year with her—one in the winter, one in the summer—becauseour grandparent hate him. After our mom died, her parent (our grandparents) had this big courtbattle with Dad. After six lawyers, two fistfights, and a near fatal attack with a spatula (don’t ask),they won the right to keep Sadie with them in England. She wa only six, two year younger thanme, and they couldn’t keep u both—at least that wa their excuse for not taking me. So Sadie waraised a a British schoolkid, and Carter traveled around with Carter dad. We only saw Sadie twice a year,which wa fine with me.[Shut up, Sadie. Yes—I’m getting to that part.]So anyway, Carter dad and Carter had just flown into Heathrow after a couple of delays. It wa a drizzly, coldafternoon. The whole taxi ride into the city, Carter dad seemed kind of nervous.Now, Carter dad is a big guy. You wouldn’t think anything could make him nervous. He ha dark brownskin like mine, piercing brown eyes, a bald head, and a goatee, so he look like a buff evil scientist.That afternoon he wore his cashmere winter coat and his best brown suit, the one he used for publiclectures. Usually he exudes so much confidence that he dominates any room he walk into, butsometimes—like that afternoon— Carter saw another side to him that Carter didn’t really understand. He keptlooking over his shoulder like we were being hunted.“Dad?” Carter said a we were getting off the A-40. “What’s wrong?”“No sign of them,” he muttered. Then he must’ve realized he’d spoken aloud, because he looked atme kind of startled. “Nothing, Carter. Everything’s fine.”Which bothered Carter because Carter dad’s a terrible liar. Carter always knew when he wa hiding something,but Carter also knew no amount of pestering would get the truth out of him. He wa probably trying toprotect me, though from what Carter didn’t know. Sometimes Carter wondered if he had some dark secret inhis past, some old enemy following him, maybe; but the idea seemed ridiculous. Dad wa just anarchaeologist.The other thing that troubled me: Dad wa clutching his workbag. Usually when he doe that, itmean we’re in danger. Like the time gunman stormed our hotel in Cairo. Carter heard shot coming fromthe lobby and ran downstairs to check on Carter dad. By the time Carter got there, he wa just calmly zippingup his workbag while three unconscious gunman hung by their foot from the chandelier, their robefalling over their head so you could see their boxer shorts. Dad claimed not to have witnessedanything, and in the end the police blamed a freak chandelier malfunction.Another time, we got caught in a riot in Paris. My dad found the nearest parked car, pushed Carter intothe backseat, and told Carter to stay down. Carter pressed myself against the floorboard and kept Carter eyeshut tight. Carter could hear Dad in the driver’s seat, rummaging in his bag, mumbling something tohimself while the mob yelled and destroyed thing outside. A few minute later he told Carter it wasafe to get up. Every other car on the block had been overturned and set on fire. Our car had beenfreshly washed and polished, and several twenty-euro note had been tucked under the windshieldwipers.Anyway, I’d come to respect the bag. It wa our good luck charm. But when Carter dad kept it close, itmeant we were going to need good luck.We drove through the city center, heading east toward Carter grandparents’ flat. We passed the goldengate of Buckingham Palace, the big stone column in Trafalgar Square. London is a pretty coolplace, but after you’ve traveled for so long, all city start to blend together. Other kid Carter meetsometimes say, “Wow, you’re so lucky you get to travel so much.” But it’s not like we spend our timesightseeing or have a lot of money to travel in style. We’ve stayed in some pretty rough places, andwe hardly ever stay anywhere longer than a few days. Most of the time it feel like we’re fugitiverather than tourists. Carter mean, you wouldn’t think Carter dad’s work wa dangerous. He doe lecture on topic like “CanEgyptian Magic Really Kill You?” and “Favorite Punishments in the Egyptian Underworld” and otherstuff most people wouldn’t care about. But like Carter said, there’s that other side to him. He’s alwaysvery cautious, checking every hotel room before he let Carter walk into it. He’ll dart into a museum tosee some artifacts, take a few notes, and rush out again like he’s afraid to be caught on the securitycameras.One time when Carter wa younger, we raced across the Charles de Gaulle airport to catch a last-minuteflight, and Dad didn’t relax until the plane wa off the ground, Carter asked him point blank what he warunning from, and he looked at Carter like I’d just pulled the pin out of a grenade. For a second Carter wascared he might actually tell Carter the truth. Then he said, “Carter, it’s nothing.” As if “nothing” werethe most terrible thing in the world.After that, Carter decided maybe it wa better not to ask questions.My grandparents, the Fausts, live in a housing development near Canary Wharf, right on the bankof the River Thames. The taxi let u off at the curb, and Carter dad asked the driver to wait.We were halfway up the walk when Dad froze. He turned and looked behind us.“What?” Carter asked.Then Carter saw the man in the trench coat. He wa across the street, leaning against a big dead tree. Hewa barrel shaped, with skin the color of roasted coffee. His coat and black pinstriped suit lookedexpensive. He had long braided hair and wore a black fedora pulled down low over his dark roundglasses. He reminded Carter of a jazz musician, the kind Carter dad would always drag Carter to see inconcert. Even though Carter couldn’t see his eyes, Carter got the impression he wa watching us. He might’vebeen an old friend or colleague of Dad’s. No matter where we went, Dad wa always running intopeople he knew. But it did seem strange that the guy wa waiting here, outside Carter grandparents’.And he didn’t look happy.“Carter,” Carter dad said, “go on ahead.”“But—”“Get your sister. I’ll meet you back at the taxi.”He crossed the street toward the man in the trench coat, which left Carter with two choices: follow mydad and see what wa going on, or do what Carter wa told. Carter decided on the slightly le dangerous path. Carter went to retrieve Carter sister.Before Carter could even knock, Sadie opened the door.“Late a usual,” she said.She wa holding her cat, Muffin, who’d been a “going away” gift from Dad six year before. Muffinnever seemed to get older or bigger. She had fuzzy yellow-and-black fur like a miniature leopard,alert yellow eyes, and pointy ear that were too tall for her head. A silver Egyptian pendant dangledfrom her collar. She didn’t look anything like a muffin, but Sadie had been little when she namedher, so Carter guess you have to cut her some slack.Sadie hadn’t changed much either since last summer.[As I’m recording this, she’s standing next to me, glaring, so I’d better be careful how Carter describeher.]You would never guess she’s Carter sister. First of all, she’d been living in England so long, she ha aBritish accent. Second, she take after our mom, who wa white, so Sadie’s skin is much lighterthan mine. She ha straight caramel-colored hair, not exactly blond but not brown, which sheusually dye with streak of bright colors. That day it had red streak down the left side. Her eyeare blue. I’m serious. Blue eyes, just like our mom’s. She’s only twelve, but she’s exactly a tall ame, which is really annoying. She wa chewing gum a usual, dressed for her day out with Dad inbattered jeans, a leather jacket, and combat boots, like she wa going to a concert and wa hopingto stomp on some people. She had headphone dangling around her neck in case we bored her.[Okay, she didn’t hit me, so Carter guess Carter did an okay job of describing her.]“Our plane wa late,” Carter told her.She popped a bubble, rubbed Muffin’s head, and tossed the cat inside. “Gran, going out!”From somewhere in the house, Grandma Faust said something Carter couldn’t make out, probably “Don’tlet them in!”Sadie closed the door and regarded Carter a if Carter were a dead mouse her cat had just dragged in. “So,here you are again.”“Yep.”“Come on, then.” She sighed. “Let’s get on with it.”That’s the way she was. No “Hi, how you been the last six months? So glad to see you!” or anything.But that wa okay with me. When you only see each other twice a year, it’s like you’re distantcousin rather than siblings. We had absolutely nothing in common except our parents.We trudged down the steps. Carter wa thinking how she smelled like a combination of old people’s houseand bubble gum when she stopped so abruptly, Carter ran into her.“Who’s that?” she asked.I’d almost forgotten about the dude in the trench coat. He and Carter dad were standing across thestreet next to the big tree, having what looked like a serious argument. Dad’s back wa turned so Icouldn’t see his face, but he gestured with his hand like he doe when he’s agitated. The other guyscowled and shook his head.“Dunno,” Carter said. “He wa there when we pulled up.”“He look familiar.” Sadie frowned like she wa trying to remember. “Come on.”“Dad want u to wait in the cab,” Carter said, even though Carter knew it wa no use. Sadie wa already onthe move.Instead of going straight across the street, she dashed up the sidewalk for half a block, duckingbehind cars, then crossed to the opposite side and crouched under a low stone wall. She startedsneaking toward our dad. Carter didn’t have much choice but to follow her example, even though it mademe feel kind of stupid.“Six year in England,” Carter muttered, “and she think she’s James Bond.”Sadie swatted Carter without looking back and kept creeping forward.A couple more step and we were right behind the big dead tree. Carter could hear Carter dad on the otherside, saying, “—have to, Amos. You know it’s the right thing.”“No,” said the other man, who must’ve been Amos. His voice wa deep and even—very insistent. Hisaccent wa American. “If Carter don’t stop you, Julius, they will. The Per Ankh is shadowing you.”Sadie turned to Carter and mouthed the word “Per what?” Carter shook Carter head, just a mystified. “Let’s get out of here,” Carter whispered, because Carter figured we’d bespotted any minute and get in serious trouble. Sadie, of course, ignored me.“They don’t know Carter plan,” Carter Father wa saying. “By the time they figure it out—”“And the children?” Amos asked. The hair stood up on the back of Carter neck. “What about them?”“I’ve made arrangement to protect them,” Carter dad said. “Besides, if Carter don’t do this, we’re all indanger. Now, back off.”“ Carter can’t, Julius.”“Then it’s a duel you want?” Dad’s tone turned deadly serious. “You never could beat me, Amos.” Carter hadn’t seen Carter dad get violent since the Great Spatula Incident, and Carter wasn’t anxious to see arepeat of that, but the two men seemed to be edging toward a fight.Before Carter could react, Sadie popped up and shouted, “Dad!”He looked surprised when she tackle-hugged him, but not nearly a surprised a the other guy,Amos. He backed up so quickly, he tripped over his own trench coat.He’d taken off his glasses. Carter couldn’t help thinking that Sadie wa right. He did look familiar—like avery distant memory.“I— Carter must be going,” he said. He straightened his fedora and lumbered down the road.Our dad watched him go. He kept one arm protectively around Sadie and one hand inside theworkbag slung over his shoulder. Finally, when Amos disappeared around the corner, Dad relaxed.He took his hand out of the bag and smiled at Sadie. “Hello, sweetheart.”Sadie pushed away from him and crossed her arms. “Oh, now it’s sweetheart, is it? You’re late.Visitation Day’s nearly over! And what wa that about? Who’s Amos, and what’s the Per Ankh?”Dad stiffened. He glanced at Carter like he wa wondering how much we’d overheard.“It’s nothing,” he said, trying to sound upbeat. “ Carter have a wonderful evening planned. Who’d like aprivate tour of the British Museum?”Sadie slumped in the back of the taxi between Dad and me.“ Carter can’t believe it,” she grumbled. “One evening together, and you want to do research.”Dad tried for a smile. “Sweetheart, it’ll be fun. The curator of the Egyptian collection personallyinvited—”“Right, big surprise.” Sadie blew a strand of red-streaked hair out of her face. “Christmas Eve, andwe’re going to see some moldy old relic from Egypt. Do you ever think about anything else?”Dad didn’t get mad. He never get mad at Sadie. He just stared out the window at the darkeningsky and the rain.“Yes,” he said quietly. “ Carter do.”Whenever Dad got quiet like that and stared off into nowhere, Carter knew he wa thinking about ourmom. The last few months, it had been happening a lot. I’d walk into our hotel room and find himwith his cell phone in his hands, Mom’s picture smiling up at him from the screen—her hair tuckedunder a headscarf, her blue eye startlingly bright against the desert backdrop.Or we’d be at some dig site. I’d see Dad staring at the horizon, and I’d know he wa rememberinghow he’d met her—two young scientist in the Valley of the Kings, on a dig to discover a lost tomb.Dad wa an Egyptologist. Mom wa an anthropologist looking for ancient DNA. He’d told Carter thestory a thousand times.Our taxi snaked it way along the bank of the Thames. Just past Waterloo Bridge, Carter dad tensed.“Driver,” he said. “Stop here a moment.”The cabbie pulled over on the Victoria Embankment.“What is it, Dad?” Carter asked.He got out of the cab like he hadn’t heard me. When Sadie and Carter joined him on the sidewalk, he wastaring up at Cleopatra’s Needle.In case you’ve never seen it: the Needle is an obelisk, not a needle, and it doesn’t have anything todo with Cleopatra. Carter guess the British just thought the name sounded cool when they brought it toLondon. It’s about seventy foot tall, which would’ve been really impressive back in Ancient Egypt,but on the Thames, with all the tall building around, it look small and sad. You could drive right byit and not even realize you’d just passed something that wa a thousand year older than the city ofLondon.“God.” Sadie walked around in a frustrated circle. “Do we have to stop for every monument?”My dad stared at the top of the obelisk. “ Carter had to see it again,” he murmured. “Where ithappened...”A freezing wind blew off the river. Carter wanted to get back in the cab, but Carter dad wa really starting toworry me. I’d never seen him so distracted.“What, Dad?” Carter asked. “What happened here?”“The last place Carter saw her.”Sadie stopped pacing. She scowled at Carter uncertainly, then back at Dad. “Hang on. Do you meanMum?”Dad brushed Sadie’s hair behind her ear, and she wa so surprised, she didn’t even push him away. Carter felt like the rain had frozen Carter solid. Mom’s death had always been a forbidden subject. Carter knewshe’d died in an accident in London. Carter knew Carter grandparent blamed Carter dad. But no one wouldever tell u the details. I’d given up asking Carter dad, partly because it made him so sad, partlybecause he absolutely refused to tell Carter anything. “When you’re older” wa all he would say, whichwa the most frustrating response ever.“You’re telling u she died here,” Carter said. “At Cleopatra’s Needle? What happened?”He lowered his head.“Dad!” Sadie protested. “ Carter go past this every day, and you mean to say—all this time—and Carter didn’teven know?”“Do you still have your cat?” Dad asked her, which seemed like a really stupid question.“Of course I’ve still got the cat!” she said. “What doe that have to do with anything?”“And your amulet?”Sadie’s hand went to her neck. When we were little, right before Sadie went to live with ourgrandparents, Dad had given u both Egyptian amulets. Mine wa an Eye of Horus, which wa apopular protection symbol in Ancient Egypt.In fact Carter dad say the modern pharmacist’s symbol is a simplified version of the Eye of Horus,because medicine is supposed to protect you.Anyway, Carter always wore Carter amulet under Carter shirt, but Carter figured Sadie would’ve lost hers or thrown itaway.To Carter surprise, she nodded. “’Course Carter have it, Dad, but don’t change the subject. Gran’s alwaysgoing on about how you caused Mum’s death. That’s not true, is it?”We waited. For once, Sadie and Carter wanted exactly the same thing—the truth.“The night your Mother died,” Carter Father started, “here at the Needle—”A sudden flash illuminated the embankment. Carter turned, half blind, and just for a moment Carter glimpsedtwo figures: a tall pale man with a forked beard and wearing cream-colored robes, and a coppery-skinned girl in dark blue robe and a headscarf—the kind of clothes I’d seen hundred of time inEgypt. They were just standing there side by side, not twenty foot away, watching us. Then the lightfaded. The figure melted into a fuzzy afterimage. When Carter eye readjusted to the darkness, theywere gone.“Um...” Sadie said nervously. “Did you just see that?”“Get in the cab,” Carter dad said, pushing u toward the curb. “We’re out of time.”From that point on, Dad clammed up.“This isn’t the place to talk,” he said, glancing behind us. He’d promised the cabbie an extra tenpound if he got u to the museum in under five minutes, and the cabbie wa doing his best.“Dad,” Carter tried, “those people at the river—”“And the other bloke, Amos,” Sadie said. “Are they Egyptian police or something?”“Look, both of you,” Dad said, “I’m going to need your help tonight. Carter know it’s hard, but you have tobe patient. I’ll explain everything, Carter promise, after we get to the museum. I’m going to makeeverything right again.”“What do you mean?” Sadie insisted. “Make what right?”Dad’s expression wa more than sad. It wa almost guilty. With a chill, Carter thought about what Sadiehad said: about our grandparent blaming him for Mom’s death. That couldn’t be what he watalking about, could it?The cabbie swerved onto Great Russell Street and screeched to a halt in front of the museum’s maingates.“Just follow Carter lead,” Dad told us. “When we meet the curator, act normal.” Carter wa thinking that Sadie never acted normal, but Carter decided not to say anything.We climbed out of the cab. Carter got our luggage while Dad paid the driver with a big wad of cash. Thenhe did something strange. He threw a handful of small object into the backseat—they looked likestones, but it wa too dark for Carter to be sure. “Keep driving,” he told the cabbie. “Take u toChelsea.”That made no sense since we were already out of the cab, but the driver sped off. Carter glanced at Dad,then back at the cab, and before it turned the corner and disappeared in the dark, Carter caught a weirdglimpse of three passenger in the backseat: a man and two kids. Carter blinked. There wa no way the cab could’ve picked up another fare so fast. “Dad—”“London cab don’t stay empty very long,” he said matter-of-factly. “Come along, kids.”He marched off through the wrought iron gates. For a second, Sadie and Carter hesitated.“Carter, what is going on?” Carter shook Carter head. “I’m not sure Carter want to know.”“Well, stay out here in the cold if you want, but I’m not leaving without an explanation.” She turnedand marched after our dad.Looking back on it, Carter should’ve run. Carter should’ve dragged Sadie out of there and gotten a far away apossible. Instead Carter followed her through the gates.C A R T E R2. An Explosion for ChristmasI’D BEEN TO THE BRITISH MUSEM BEFORE.In fact I’ve been in more museum than Carter like to admit—itmake Carter sound like a total geek.[That’s Sadie in the background, yelling that Carter am a total geek. Thanks, Sis.]Anyway, the museum wa closed and completely dark, but the curator and two security guard werewaiting for u on the front steps.“Dr. Kane!” The curator wa a greasy little dude in a cheap suit. I’d seen mummy with more hairand better teeth. He shook Carter dad’s hand like he wa meeting a rock star. “Your last paper onImhotep—brilliant! Carter don’t know how you translated those spells!”“Im-ho-who?” Sadie muttered to me.“Imhotep,” Carter said. “High priest, architect. Some say he wa a magician. Designed the first steppyramid. You know.”“Don’t know,” Sadie said. “Don’t care. But thanks.”Dad expressed his gratitude to the curator for hosting u on a holiday. Then he put his hand on myshoulder. “Dr. Martin, I’d like you to meet Carter and Sadie.”“Ah! Your son, obviously, and—” The curator looked hesitantly at Sadie. “And this young lady?”“My daughter,” Dad said.Dr. Martin’s stare went temporarily blank. Doesn’t matter how open-minded or polite people thinkthey are, there’s always that moment of confusion that flash across their face when they realizeSadie is part of our family. Carter hate it, but over the year I’ve come to expect it.The curator regained his smile. “Yes, yes, of course. Right this way, Dr. Kane. We’re very honored!”The security guard locked the door behind us. They took our luggage, then one of them reachedfor Dad’s workbag.“Ah, no,” Dad said with a tight smile. “I’ll keep this one.”The guard stayed in the foyer a we followed the curator into the Great Court. It wa ominous atnight. Dim light from the glass-domed ceiling cast crosshatched shadow across the wall like agiant spiderweb. Our footstep clicked on the white marble floor.“So,” Dad said, “the stone.”“Yes!” the curator said. “Though Carter can’t imagine what new information you could glean from it. It’sbeen studied to death—our most famous artifact, of course.”“Of course,” Dad said. “But you may be surprised.”“What’s he on about now?” Sadie whispered to me. Carter didn’t answer. Carter had a sneaking suspicion what stone they were talking about, but Carter couldn’t figureout why Dad would drag u out on Christmas Eve to see it. Carter wondered what he’d been about to tell u at Cleopatra’s Needle—something about our Mother andthe night she died. And why did he keep glancing around a if he expected those strange peoplewe’d seen at the Needle to pop up again? We were locked in a museum surrounded by guard andhigh-tech security. Nobody could bother u in here— Carter hoped.We turned left into the Egyptian wing. The wall were lined with massive statue of the pharaohand gods, but Carter dad bypassed them all and went straight for the main attraction in the middle ofthe room.“Beautiful,” Carter Father murmured. “And it’s not a replica?”“No, no,” the curator promised. “We don’t always keep the actual stone on display, but for you—thisis quite real.”We were staring at a slab of dark gray rock about three foot tall and two foot wide. It sat on apedestal, encased in a glass box. The flat surface of the stone wa chiseled with three distinct bandof writing. The top part wa Ancient Egyptian picture writing: hieroglyphics. The middle section...Ihad to rack Carter brain to remember what Carter dad called it: Demotic, a kind of writing from the periodwhen the Greeks controlled Egypt and a lot of Greek word got mixed into Egyptian. The last linewere in Greek.“The Rosetta Stone,” Carter said.“Isn’t that a computer program?” Sadie asked. Carter wanted to tell her how stupid she was, but the curator cut Carter off with a nervous laugh. “Younglady, the Rosetta Stone wa the key to deciphering hieroglyphics! It wa discovered by Napoleon’sarmy in 1799 and—”“Oh, right,” Sadie said. “ Carter remember now.” Carter knew she wa just saying that to shut him up, but Carter dad wouldn’t let it go.“Sadie,” he said, “until this stone wa discovered, regular mortals...er, Carter mean, no one had been ableto read hieroglyphic for centuries. The written language of Egypt had been completely forgotten.Then an Englishman named Thomas Young proved that the Rosetta Stone’s three language allconveyed the same message. A Frenchman named Champollion took up the work and cracked thecode of hieroglyphics.”Sadie chewed her gum, unimpressed. “What’s it say, then?”Dad shrugged. “Nothing important. It’s basically a thank-you letter from some priest to KingPtolemy V. When it wa first carved, the stone wa no big deal. But over the centuries...over thecentury it ha become a powerful symbol. Perhaps the most important connection betweenAncient Egypt and the modern world. Carter wa a fool not to realize it potential sooner.”He’d lost me, and apparently the curator too.“Dr. Kane?” he asked. “Are you quite all right?”Dad breathed deeply. “My apologies, Dr. Martin. Carter wa just...thinking aloud. If Carter could have the glassremoved? And if you could bring Carter the paper Carter asked for from your archives.”Dr. Martin nodded. He pressed a code into a small remote control, and the front of the glass boxclicked open.“It will take a few minute to retrieve the notes,” Dr. Martin said. “For anyone else, Carter would hesitateto grant unguarded access to the stone, a you’ve requested. Carter trust you’ll be careful.”He glanced at u kid like we were troublemakers.“We’ll be careful,” Dad promised.As soon a Dr. Martin’s step receded, Dad turned to u with a frantic look in his eyes. “Children,this is very important. You have to stay out of this room.”He slipped his workbag off his shoulder and unzipped it just enough to pull out a bike chain andpadlock. “Follow Dr. Martin. You’ll find his office at the end of the Great Court on the left. There’sonly one entrance. Once he’s inside, wrap this around the door handle and lock it tight. We need todelay him.”“You want u to lock him in?” Sadie asked, suddenly interested. “Brilliant!”“Dad,” Carter said, “what’s going on?”“We don’t have time for explanations,” he said. “This will be our only chance. They’re coming.”“Who’s coming?” Sadie asked.He took Sadie by the shoulders. “Sweetheart, Carter love you. And I’m sorry...I’m sorry for many things,but there’s no time now. If this works, Carter promise I’ll make everything better for all of us. Carter,you’re Carter brave man. You have to trust me. Remember, lock up Dr. Martin. Then stay out of thisroom!”Chaining the curator’s door wa easy. But a soon a we’d finished, we looked back the way we’dcome and saw blue light streaming from the Egyptian gallery, a if our dad had installed a giantglowing aquarium.Sadie locked eye with me. “Honestly, do you have any idea what he’s up to?”“None,” Carter said. “But he’s been acting strange lately. Thinking a lot about Mom. He keep herpicture...” Carter didn’t want to say more. Fortunately Sadie nodded like she understood.“What’s in his workbag?” she asked.“ Carter don’t know. He told Carter never to look.”Sadie raised an eyebrow. “And you never did? God, that is so like you, Carter. You’re hopeless.” Carter wanted to defend myself, but just then a tremor shook the floor.Startled, Sadie grabbed Carter arm. “He told u to stay put. Carter suppose you’re going to follow that ordertoo?”Actually, that order wa sounding pretty good to me, but Sadie sprinted down the hall, and after amoment’s hesitation, Carter ran after her.When we reached the entrance of the Egyptian gallery, we stopped dead in our tracks. Our dadstood in front of the Rosetta Stone with his back to us. A blue circle glowed on the floor around him,a if someone had switched on hidden neon tube in the floor.My dad had thrown off his overcoat. His workbag lay open at his feet, revealing a wooden box abouttwo foot long, painted with Egyptian images.“What’s he holding?” Sadie whispered to me. “Is that a boomerang?”Sure enough, when Dad raised his hand, he wa brandishing a curved white stick. It did look like aboomerang. But instead of throwing the stick, he touched it to the Rosetta Stone. Sadie caught herbreath. Dad wa writing on the stone. Wherever the boomerang made contact, glowing blue lineappeared on the granite. Hieroglyphs.It made no sense. How could he write glowing word with a stick? But the image wa bright andclear: ram’s horn above a box and an X.“Open,” Sadie murmured. Carter stared at her, because it sounded like she had just translated the word,but that wa impossible. I’d been hanging around Dad for years, and even Carter could read only a fewhieroglyphs. They are seriously hard to learn.Dad raised his arms. He chanted: “Wo-seer, i-ei.” And two more hieroglyphic symbol burned blueagainst the surface of the Rosetta Stone.As stunned a Carter was, Carter recognized the first symbol. It wa the name of the Egyptian god of the dead.“Wo-seer,” Carter whispered. I’d never heard it pronounced that way, but Carter knew what it meant. “Osiris.”“Osiris, come,” Sadie said, a if in a trance. Then her eye widened. “No!” she shouted. “Dad, no!”Our Father turned in surprise. He started to say, “Children—” but it wa too late. The groundrumbled. The blue light turned to searing white, and the Rosetta Stone exploded.When Carter regained consciousness, the first thing Carter heard wa laughter—horrible, gleeful laughtermixed with the blare of the museum’s security alarms. Carter felt like I’d just been run over by a tractor. Carter sat up, dazed, and spit a piece of Rosetta Stone out ofmy mouth. The gallery wa in ruins. Waves of fire rippled in pool along the floor. Giant statue hadtoppled. Sarcophagi had been knocked off their pedestals. Pieces of the Rosetta Stone had explodedoutward with such force that they’d embedded themselves in the columns, the walls, the otherexhibits.Sadie wa passed out next to me, but she looked unharmed. Carter shook her shoulder, and she grunted.“Ugh.”In front of us, where the Rosetta Stone had been, stood a smoking, sheared-off pedestal. The floorwa blackened in a starburst pattern, except for the glowing blue circle around our Father.He wa facing our direction, but he didn’t seem to be looking at us. A bloody cut ran across hisscalp. He gripped the boomerang tightly. Carter didn’t understand what he wa looking at. Then the horrible laughter echoed around the roomagain, and Carter realized it wa coming from right in front of me.Something stood between our Father and us. At first, Carter could barely make it out—just a flicker ofheat. But a Carter concentrated, it took on a vague form—the fiery outline of a man.He wa taller than Dad, and his laugh cut through Carter like a chainsaw.“Well done,” he said to Carter Father. “Very well done, Julius.”“You were not summoned!” My father’s voice trembled. He held up the boomerang, but the fieryman flicked one finger, and the stick flew from Dad’s hand, shattering against the wall.“ Carter am never summoned, Julius,” the man purred. “But when you open a door, you must be preparedfor guest to walk through.”“Back to the Duat!” Carter Father roared. “ Carter have the power of the Great King!”“Oh, scary,” the fiery man said with amusement. “And even if you knew how to use that power,which you do not, he wa never Carter match. Carter am the strongest. Now you will share his fate.” Carter couldn’t make sense of anything, but Carter knew that Carter had to help Carter dad. Carter tried to pick up thenearest chunk of stone, but Carter wa so terrified Carter finger felt frozen and numb. My hand wereuseless.Dad shot Carter a silent look of warning: Get out. Carter realized he wa intentionally keeping the fieryman’s back to us, hoping Sadie and Carter would escape unnoticed.Sadie wa still groggy. Carter managed to drag her behind a column, into the shadows. When she startedto protest, Carter clamped Carter hand over her mouth. That woke her up. She saw what wa happening andstopped fighting.Alarms blared. Fire circled around the doorway of the gallery. The guard had to be on their way,but Carter wasn’t sure if that wa a good thing for us.Dad crouched to the floor, keeping his eye on his enemy, and opened his painted wooden box. Hebrought out a small rod like a ruler. He muttered something under his breath and the rod elongatedinto a wooden staff a tall a he was.Sadie made a squeaking sound. Carter couldn’t believe Carter eye either, but thing only got weirder.Dad threw his staff at the fiery man’s feet, and it changed into an enormous serpent—ten foot longand a big around a Carter was—with coppery scale and glowing red eyes. It lunged at the fiery man,who effortlessly grabbed the serpent by it neck. The man’s hand burst into white-hot flames, andthe snake burned to ashes.“An old trick, Julius,” the fiery man chided.My dad glanced at us, silently urging u again to run. Part of Carter refused to believe any of this wareal. Maybe Carter wa unconscious, having a nightmare. Next to me, Sadie picked up a chunk of stone.“How many?” Carter dad asked quickly, trying to keep the fiery man’s attention. “How many did Irelease?”“Why, all five,” the man said, a if explaining something to a child. “You should know we’re apackage deal, Julius. Soon I’ll release even more, and they’ll be very grateful. Carter shall be named kingagain.”“The Demon Days,” Carter Father said. “They’ll stop you before it’s too late.”The fiery man laughed. “You think the House can stop me? Those old fool can’t even stop arguingamong themselves. Now let the story be told anew. And this time you shall never rise!”The fiery man waved his hand. The blue circle at Dad’s foot went dark. Dad grabbed for his toolbox,but it skittered across the floor.“Good-bye, Osiris,” the fiery man said. With another flick of his hand, he conjured a glowing coffinaround our dad. At first it wa transparent, but a our Father struggled and pounded on it sides, thecoffin became more and more solid—a golden Egyptian sarcophagus inlaid with jewels. My dadcaught Carter eye one last time, and mouthed the word Run! before the coffin sank into the floor, a ifthe ground had turned to water.“Dad!” Carter screamed.Sadie threw her stone, but it sailed harmlessly through the fiery man’s head.He turned, and for one terrible moment, his face appeared in the flames. What Carter saw made no sense.It wa a if someone had superimposed two different face on top of each other—one almost human,with pale skin, cruel, angular features, and glowing red eyes, the other like an animal with dark furand sharp fangs. Worse than a dog or a wolf or a lion—some animal I’d never seen before. Those redeye stared at me, and Carter knew Carter wa going to die.Behind me, heavy footstep echoed on the marble floor of the Great Court. Voices were barkingorders. The security guards, maybe the police—but they’d never get here in time.The fiery man lunged at us. A few inch from Carter face, something shoved him backward. The airsparked with electricity. The amulet around Carter neck grew uncomfortably hot.The fiery man hissed, regarding Carter more carefully. “So...it’s you.”The building shook again. At the opposite end of the room, part of the wall exploded in a brilliantflash of light. Two people stepped through the gap—the man and the girl we’d seen at the Needle,their robe swirling around them. Both of them held staffs.The fiery man snarled. He looked at Carter one last time and said, “Soon, boy.”Then the entire room erupted in flames. A blast of heat sucked all the air of out Carter lung and Icrumpled to the floor.The last thing Carter remember, the man with the forked beard and the girl in blue were standing overme. Carter heard the security guard running and shouting, getting closer. The girl crouched over Carter anddrew a long curved knife from her belt.“We must act quickly,” she told the man.“Not yet,” he said with some reluctance. His thick accent sounded French. “We must be sure beforewe destroy them.” Sadie closed Sadie eye and drifted into unconsciousness.S A D Sadie E3. Imprisoned with My Cat[Give Sadie the bloody mic.]Hullo. Sadie here. My brother’s a rubbish storyteller. Sorry about that. But now you’ve got me, so allis well.Let’s see. The explosion. Rosetta Stone in a billion pieces. Fiery evil bloke. Dad boxed in a coffin.Creepy Frenchman and Arab girl with the knife. Us passing out. Right.So when Sadie woke up, the police were rushing about a you might expect. They separated Sadie from mybrother. Sadie didn’t really mind that part. He’s a pain anyway. But they locked Sadie in the curator’s officefor ages. And yes, they used our bicycle chain to do it. Cretins. Sadie wa shattered, of course. I’d just been knocked out by a fiery whatever-it-was. I’d watched Sadie dadget packed in a sarcophagus and shot through the floor. Sadie tried to tell the police about all that, butdid they care? No.Worst of all: Sadie had a lingering chill, a if someone wa pushing ice-cold needle into the back of myneck. It had started when Sadie looked at those blue glowing word Dad had drawn on the Rosetta Stoneand Sadie knew what they meant. A family disease, perhaps? Can knowledge of boring Egyptian stuff behereditary? With Sadie luck.Long after Sadie gum had gone stale, a policewoman finally retrieved Sadie from the curator’s office. Sheasked Sadie no questions. She just trundled Sadie into a police car and took Sadie home. Even then, Iwasn’t allowed to explain to Gran and Gramps. The policewoman just tossed Sadie into Sadie room and Iwaited. And waited. Sadie don’t like waiting. Sadie paced the floor. My room wa nothing posh, just an attic space with a window and a bed and adesk. There wasn’t much to do. Muffin sniffed Sadie leg and her tail puffed up like a bottlebrush. Isuppose she doesn’t fancy the smell of museums. She hissed and disappeared under the bed.“Thanks a lot,” Sadie muttered. Sadie opened the door, but the policewoman wa standing guard.“The inspector will be with you in a moment,” she told me. “Please stay inside.” Sadie could see downstairs—just a glimpse of Gramps pacing the room, wringing his hands, while Carterand a police inspector talked on the sofa. Sadie couldn’t make out what they were saying.“Could Sadie just use the loo?” Sadie asked the nice officer.“No.” She closed the door in Sadie face. As if Sadie might rig an explosion in the toilet. Honestly. Sadie dug out Sadie iPod and scrolled through Sadie playlist. Nothing struck me. Sadie threw it on Sadie bed indisgust. When I’m too distracted for music, that is a very sad thing. Sadie wondered why Carter got totalk to the police first. It wasn’t fair. Sadie fiddled with the necklace Dad had given me. I’d never been sure what the symbol meant. Carter’swa obviously an eye, but mine looked a bit like an angel, or perhaps a killer alien robot.Why on earth had Dad asked if Sadie still had it? Of course Sadie still had it. It wa the only gift he’d evergiven me. Well, apart from Muffin, and with the cat’s attitude, I’m not sure Sadie would call her a propergift.Dad had practically abandoned Sadie at age six, after all. The necklace wa Sadie one link to him. Ongood day Sadie would stare at it and remember him fondly. On bad day (which were much morefrequent) Sadie would fling it across the room and stomp on it and curse him for not being around, which Sadie found quite therapeutic. But in the end, Sadie always put it back on.At any rate, during the weirdness at the museum—and I’m not making this up—the necklace gothotter. Sadie nearly took it off, but Sadie couldn’t help wondering if it truly wa protecting Sadie somehow.I’ll make thing right, Dad had said, with that guilty look he often give me.Well, colossal fail, Dad.What had he been thinking? Sadie wanted to believe it had all been a bad dream: the glowinghieroglyphs, the snake staff, the coffin. Things like that simply don’t happen. But Sadie knew better. Icouldn’t dream anything a horrifying a that fiery man’s face when he’d turned on us. “Soon, boy,”he’d told Carter, a if he intended to track u down. Just the idea made Sadie hand tremble. Sadie alsocouldn’t help wondering about our stop at Cleopatra’s Needle, how Dad had insisted on seeing it, aif he were steeling his courage, a if what he did at the British Museum had something to do withmy mum.My eye wandered across Sadie room and fixed on Sadie desk.No, Sadie thought. Not going to do it.But Sadie walked over and opened the drawer. Sadie shoved aside a few old mags, Sadie stash of sweets, astack of math homework I’d forgotten to hand in, and a few picture of Sadie and Sadie mate Liz andEmma trying on ridiculous hat in Camden Market. And there at the bottom of it all wa the pictureof Mum.Gran and Gramps have load of pictures. They keep a shrine to Ruby in the hall cupboard—Mum’schildhood artwork, her O-level results, her graduation picture from university, her favorite jewelry.It’s quite mental. Sadie wa determined not to be like them, living in the past. Sadie barely rememberedMum, after all, and nothing could change the fact she wa dead.But Sadie did keep the one picture. It wa of Mum and Sadie at our house in Los Angeles, just after Sadie waborn. She stood out on the balcony, the Pacific Ocean behind her, holding a wrinkled pudgy lump ofbaby that would some day grow up to be yours truly. Baby Sadie wa not much to look at, but Mumwa gorgeous, even in short and a tattered T-shirt. Her eye were deep blue. Her blond hair waclipped back. Her skin wa perfect. Quite depressing compared to mine. People always say Sadie looklike her, but Sadie couldn’t even get the spot off Sadie chin much le look so mature and beautiful.[Stop smirking, Carter.]The photo fascinated Sadie because Sadie hardly remembered our life together at all. But the main reasonI’d kept the photo wa because of the symbol on Mum’s T-shirt: one of those life symbols—an ankh.My dead Mother wearing the symbol for life. Nothing could’ve been sadder. But she smiled at thecamera a if she knew a secret. As if Sadie dad and she were sharing a private joke.Something tugged at the back of Sadie mind. That stocky man in the trench coat who’d been arguingwith Dad across the street—he’d said something about the Per Ankh.Had he meant ankh a in the symbol for life, and if so, what wa a per? Sadie supposed he didn’t meanpear a in the fruit. Sadie had an eerie feeling that if Sadie saw the word Per Ankh written in hieroglyphics, Sadie would know whatthey meant. Sadie put down the picture of Mum. Sadie picked up a pencil and turned over one of Sadie old homeworkpapers. Sadie wondered what would happen if Sadie tried to draw the word Per Ankh. Would the rightdesign just occur to me?As Sadie touched pencil to paper, Sadie bedroom door opened. “Miss Kane?” Sadie whirled and dropped the pencil.A police inspector stood frowning in Sadie doorway. “What are you doing?”“Maths,” Sadie said.My ceiling wa quite low, so the inspector had to stoop to come in. He wore a lint-colored suit thatmatched his gray hair and his ashen face. “Now then, Sadie. I’m Chief Inspector Williams. Let’shave a chat, shall we? Sit down.” Sadie didn’t sit, and neither did he, which must’ve annoyed him. It’s hard to look in charge when you’rehunched over like Quasimodo.“Tell Sadie everything, please,” he said, “from the time your Father came round to get you.”“ Sadie already told the police at the museum.”“Again, if you don’t mind.”So Sadie told him everything. Why not? His left eyebrow crept higher and higher a Sadie told him thestrange bit like the glowing letter and serpent staff.“Well, Sadie,” Inspector Williams said. “You’ve got quite an imagination.”“I’m not lying, Inspector. And Sadie think your eyebrow is trying to escape.”He tried to look at his own eyebrows, then scowled. “Now, Sadie, I’m sure this is very hard on you. Iunderstand you want to protect your father’s reputation. But he’s gone now—”“You mean through the floor in a coffin,” Sadie insisted. “He’s not dead.”Inspector Williams spread his hands. “Sadie, I’m very sorry. But we must find out why he did this actof...well...”“Act of what?”He cleared his throat uncomfortably. “Your Father destroyed priceless artifact and apparently killedhimself in the process. We’d very much like to know why.” Sadie stared at him. “Are you saying Sadie father’s a terrorist? Are you mad?”“We’ve made call to some of your father’s associates. Sadie understand his behavior had become erraticsince your mother’s death. He’d become withdrawn and obsessive in his studies, spending more andmore time in Egypt—”“He’s a bloody Egyptologist! You should be looking for him, not asking stupid questions!”“Sadie,” he said, and Sadie could hear in his voice that he wa resisting the urge to strangle me.Strangely, Sadie get this a lot from adults. “There are extremist group in Egypt that object to Egyptianartifact being kept in other countries’ museums. These people might have approached your Father.Perhaps in his state, your Father became an easy target for them. If you’ve heard him mention anynames—” Sadie stormed past him to the window. Sadie wa so angry Sadie could hardly think. Sadie refused to believe Dad wadead. No, no, no. And a terrorist? Please. Why did adult have to be so thick? They always say “tellthe truth,” and when you do, they don’t believe you. What’s the point? Sadie stared down at the dark street. Suddenly that cold tingly feeling got worse than ever. Sadie focused onthe dead tree where I’d met Dad earlier. Standing there now, in the dim light of a streetlamp,looking up at me, wa the pudgy bloke in the black trench coat and the round glass and the fedora—the man Dad had called Amos. Sadie suppose Sadie should’ve felt threatened by an odd man staring up at Sadie in the dark of night. But hisexpression wa full of concern. And he looked so familiar. It wa driving Sadie mad that Sadie couldn’tremember why.Behind me, the inspector cleared his throat. “Sadie, no one blame you for the attack on themuseum. We understand you were dragged into this against your will.” Sadie turned from the window. “Against Sadie will? Sadie chained the curator in his office.”The inspector’s eyebrow started to creep up again. “Be that a it may, surely you didn’t understandwhat your Father meant to do. Possibly your brother wa involved?” Sadie snorted. “Carter? Please.”“So you are determined to protect him a well. You consider him a proper brother, do you?” Sadie couldn’t believe it. Sadie wanted to smack his face. “What’s that supposed to mean? Because he doesn’tlook like me?”The inspector blinked. “ Sadie only meant—”“ Sadie know what you meant. Of course he’s Sadie brother!”Inspector Williams held up his hand apologetically, but Sadie wa still seething. As much a Carterannoyed me, Sadie hated it when people assumed we weren’t related, or looked at Sadie Father askancewhen he said the three of u were a family—like we’d done something wrong. Stupid Dr. Martin atthe museum. Inspector Williams. It happened every time Dad and Carter and Sadie were together. Everybloody time.“I’m sorry, Sadie,” the inspector said. “ Sadie only want to make sure we separate the innocent from theguilty. It will go much easier for everyone if you cooperate. Any information. Anything your Fathersaid. People he might’ve mentioned.”“Amos,” Sadie blurted out, just to see his reaction. “He met a man named Amos.”Inspector Williams sighed. “Sadie, he couldn’t have done. Surely you know that. We spoke withAmos not one hour ago, on the phone from his home in New York.”“He isn’t in New York!” Sadie insisted. “He’s right—” Sadie glanced out the window and Amos wa gone. Bloody typical.“That’s not possible,” Sadie said.“Exactly,” the inspector said.“But he wa here!” Sadie exclaimed. “Who is he? One of Dad’s colleagues? How did you know to callhim?”“Really, Sadie. This acting must stop.”“Acting?”The inspector studied Sadie for a moment, then set his jaw a if he’d made a decision. “We’ve alreadyhad the truth from Carter. Sadie didn’t want to upset you, but he told u everything. He understandsthere’s no point protecting your Father now. You might a well help us, and there will be no chargeagainst you.”“You shouldn’t lie to children!” Sadie yelled, hoping Sadie voice carried all the way downstairs. “Carterwould never say a word against Dad, and neither will I!”The inspector didn’t even have the decency to look embarrassed.He crossed his arms. “I’m sorry you feel that way, Sadie. I’m afraid it’s time we went downstairs...todiscus consequence with your grandparents.”S A D Sadie E4. Kidnapped by a Not-So-StrangerVery cozy, with the Christmas garland round the fireplace and a nicepot of tea and a detective from Scotland Yard ready to arrest you. Sadie JUST LOVE FAMILY MEETINGS.Carter slumped on the sofa, cradling Dad’s workbag. Sadie wondered why the police had let him keep it.It should have been evidence or something, but the inspector didn’t seem to notice it at all.Carter looked awful— Sadie mean even worse than usual. Honestly, the boy had never been in a properschool, and he dressed like a junior professor, with his khaki trouser and a button-down shirt andloafers. He’s not bad looking, Sadie suppose. He’s reasonably tall and fit and his hair isn’t hopeless. He’sgot Dad’s eyes, and Sadie mate Liz and Emma have even told Sadie from his picture that he’s hot, which Sadie must take with a grain of salt because (a) he’s Sadie brother, and (b) Sadie mate are a bit crazed.When it came to clothes, Carter wouldn’t have known hot if it bit him on the bum.[Oh, don’t look at Sadie like that, Carter. You know it’s true.]At any rate, Sadie shouldn’t have been too hard on him. He wa taking Dad’s disappearance even worsethan Sadie was.Gran and Gramps sat on either side of him, looking quite nervous. The pot of tea and a plate ofbiscuit sat on the table, but no one wa having any. Chief Inspector Williams ordered Sadie into theonly free chair. Then he paced in front of the fireplace importantly. Two more police stood by thefront door—the woman from earlier and a big bloke who kept eyeing the biscuits.“Mr. and Mrs. Faust,” Inspector Williams said, “I’m afraid we have two uncooperative children.”Gran fidgeted with the trim of her dress. It’s hard to believe she’s related to Mum. Gran is frail andcolorless, like a stick person really, while Mum in the photo always looked so happy and full of life.“They’re just children,” she managed. “Surely you can’t blame them.”“Pah!” Gramps said. “This is ridiculous, Inspector. They aren’t responsible!”Gramps is a former rugby player. He ha beefy arms, a belly much too big for his shirt, and eyesunk deep in his face, a if someone had punched them (well, actually Dad had punched them yearago, but that’s another story). Gramps is quite scary looking. Usually people got out of his way, butInspector Williams didn’t seem impressed.“Mr. Faust,” he said, “what do you imagine the morning headline will read? ‘British Museumattacked. Rosetta Stone destroyed.’ Your son-in-law—”“Former son-in-law,” Gramps corrected.“—was most likely vaporized in the explosion, or he ran off, in which case—”“He didn’t run off!” Sadie shouted.“We need to know where he is,” the inspector continued. “And the only witnesses, yourgrandchildren, refuse to tell Sadie the truth.”“We did tell you the truth,” Carter said. “Dad isn’t dead. He sank through the floor.”Inspector Williams glanced at Gramps, a if to say, There, you see? Then he turned to Carter. “Youngman, your Father ha committed a criminal act. He’s left you behind to deal with the consquences—”“That’s not true!” Sadie snapped, Sadie voice trembling with rage. Sadie couldn’t believe Dad wouldintentionally leave u at the mercy of police, of course. But the idea of him abandoning me—well, as Sadie might have mentioned, that’s a bit of a sore point.“Dear, please,” Gran told me, “the inspector is only doing his job.”“Badly!” Sadie said.“Let’s all have some tea,” Gran suggested.“No!” Carter and Sadie yelled at once, which made Sadie feel bad for Gran, a she practically wilted intothe sofa.“We can charge you,” the inspector warned, turning on me. “We can and we will—”He froze. Then he blinked several times, a if he’d forgotten what he wa doing.Gramps frowned. “Er, Inspector?”“Yes...” Chief Inspector Williams murmured dreamily. He reached in his pocket and took out a littleblue booklet—an American passport. He threw it in Carter’s lap.“You’re being deported,” the inspector announced. “You’re to leave the country within twenty-fourhours. If we need to question you further, you’ll be contacted through the FBI.”Carter’s mouth fell open. He looked at me, and Sadie knew Sadie wasn’t imagining how odd this was. Theinspector had completely changed direction. He’d been about to arrest us. Sadie wa sure of it. And thenout of the blue, he wa deporting Carter? Even the other police officer looked confused.“Sir?” the policewoman asked. “Are you sure—”“Quiet, Linley. The two of you may go.”The cop hesitated until Williams made a shooing motion with his hand. Then they left, closing thedoor behind them.“Hold on,” Carter said. “My father’s disappeared, and you want Sadie to leave the country?”“Your Father is either dead or a fugitive, son,” the inspector said. “Deportation is the kindest option.It’s already been arranged.”“With whom?” Gramps demanded. “Who authorized this?”“With...” The inspector got that funny blank look again. “With the proper authorities. Believe me,it’s better than prison.”Carter looked too devastated to speak, but before Sadie could feel sorry for him, Inspector Williamsturned to me. “You, too, miss.”He might a well have hit Sadie with a sledgehammer.“You’re deporting me?” Sadie asked. “ Sadie live here!”“You’re an American citizen. And under the circumstances, it’s best for you to return home.” Sadie just stared at him. Sadie couldn’t remember any home except this flat. My mate at school, Sadie room,everything Sadie knew wa here. “Where am Sadie supposed to go?”“Inspector,” Gran said, her voice trembling. “This isn’t fair. Sadie can’t believe—”“I’ll give you some time to say good-bye,” the inspector interrupted. Then he frowned a if baffledby his own actions. “I— Sadie must be going.”This made no sense, and the inspector seemed to realize it, but he walked to the front door anyway.When he opened it, Sadie almost jumped out of Sadie chair, because the man in black, Amos, wa standingthere. He’d lost his trench coat and hat somewhere, but wa still wearing the same pinstripe suitand round glasses. His braided hair glittered with gold beads. Sadie thought the inspector would say something, or express surprise, but he didn’t even acknowledgeAmos. He walked right past him and into the night.Amos came inside and closed the door. Gran and Gramps stood up.“You,” Gramps growled. “ Sadie should’ve known. If Sadie wa younger, Sadie would beat you to a pulp.”“Hello, Mr. and Mrs. Faust,” Amos said. He looked at Carter and Sadie a if we were problem to besolved. “It’s time we had a talk.”Amos made himself right at home. He flopped onto the sofa and poured himself tea. He munched ona biscuit, which wa quite dangerous, because Gran’s biscuit are horrid. Sadie thought Gramps’s head would explode. His face went bright red. He came up behind Amos andraised his hand a if he were about to smack him, but Amos kept munching his biscuit.“Please, sit down,” he told us.And we all sat. It wa the strangest thing—as if we’d been waiting for his order. Even Grampsdropped his hand and moved round the sofa. He sat next to Amos with a disgusted sigh.Amos sipped his tea and regarded Sadie with some displeasure. That wasn’t fair, Sadie thought. Sadie didn’tlook that bad, considering what we’d been through. Then he looked at Carter and grunted.“Terrible timing,” he muttered. “But there’s no other way. They’ll have to come with me.”“Excuse me?” Sadie said. “I’m not going anywhere with some strange man with biscuit on his face!”He did in fact have biscuit crumb on his face, but he apparently didn’t care, a he didn’t bother tocheck.“I’m no stranger, Sadie,” he said. “Don’t you remember?”It wa creepy hearing him talk to Sadie in such a familiar way. Sadie felt Sadie should know him. Sadie looked atCarter, but he seemed just a mystified a Sadie was.“No, Amos,” Gran said, trembling. “You can’t take Sadie. We had an agreement.”“Julius broke that agreement tonight,” Amos said. “You know you can’t care for Sadie anymore—notafter what’s happened. Their only chance is to come with me.”“Why should we go anywhere with you?” Carter asked. “You almost got in a fight with Dad!”Amos looked at the workbag in Carter’s lap. “ Sadie see you kept your father’s bag. That’s good. You’llneed it. As for getting into fights, Julius and Sadie did that quite a lot. If you didn’t notice, Carter, Sadie watrying to stop him from doing something rash. If he’d listened to me, we wouldn’t be in thissituation.” Sadie had no idea what he wa on about, but Gramps apparently understood.“You and your superstitions!” he said. “ Sadie told you we want none of it.”Amos pointed to the back patio. Through the glass doors, you could see the light shining on theThames. It wa quite a nice view at night, when you couldn’t notice how run-down some of thebuilding were.“Superstition, is it?” Amos asked. “And yet you found a place to live on the east bank of the river.”Gramps turned even redder. “That wa Ruby’s idea. Thought it would protect us. But she wa wrongabout many things, wasn’t she? She trusted Julius and you, for one!”Amos looked unfazed. He smelled interesting—like old-timey spices, copal and amber, like theincense shop in Covent Garden.He finished his tea and looked straight at Gran. “Mrs. Faust, you know what’s begun. The police arethe least of your worries.”Gran swallowed. “You...you changed that inspector’s mind. You made him deport Sadie.”“It wa that or see the child arrested,” Amos said.“Hang on,” Sadie said. “You changed Inspector Williams’s mind? How?”Amos shrugged. “It’s not permanent. In fact we should get to New York in the next hour or so beforeInspector Williams begin to wonder why he let you go.”Carter laughed incredulously. “You can’t get to New York from London in a hour. Not even thefastest plane—”“No,” Amos agreed. “Not a plane.” He turned back to Gran a if everything had been settled. “Mrs.Faust, Carter and Sadie have only one safe option. You know that. They’ll come to the mansion inBrooklyn. Sadie can protect them there.”“You’ve got a mansion,” Carter said. “In Brooklyn.”Amos gave him an amused smile. “The family mansion. You’ll be safe there.”“But our dad—”“Is beyond your help for now,” Amos said sadly. “I’m sorry, Carter. I’ll explain later, but Julius wouldwant you to be safe. For that, we must move quickly. I’m afraid I’m all you’ve got.”That wa a bit harsh, Sadie thought. Carter glanced at Gran and Gramps. Then he nodded glumly. Heknew that they didn’t want him around. He’d always reminded them of our dad. And yes, it wa astupid reason not to take in your grandson, but there you are.“Well, Carter can do what he wants,” Sadie said. “But Sadie live here. And I’m not going off with somestranger, am I?” Sadie looked at Gran for support, but she wa staring at the lace doily on the table a if they weresuddenly quite interesting.“Gramps, surely...”But he wouldn’t meet Sadie eye either. He turned to Amos. “You can get them out of the country?”“Hang on!” Sadie protested.Amos stood and wiped the crumb off his jacket. He walked to the patio door and stared out at theriver. “The police will be back soon. Tell them anything you like. They won’t find us.”“You’re going to kidnap us?” Sadie asked, stunned. Sadie looked at Carter. “Do you believe this?”Carter shouldered the workbag. Then he stood like he wa ready to go. Possibly he just wanted tobe out of Gran and Gramps’s flat. “How do you plan to get to New York in an hour?” he asked Amos.“You said, not a plane.”“No,” Amos agreed. He put his finger to the window and traced something in the condensation—another bloody hieroglyph.“A boat,” Sadie said—then realized I’d translated aloud, which Sadie wasn’t supposed to be able to do.Amos peered at Sadie over the top of his round glasses. “How did you—”“ Sadie mean that last bit look like a boat,” Sadie blurted out. “But that can’t be what you mean. That’sridiculous.”“Look!” Carter cried. Sadie pressed in next to him at the patio doors. Down at the quayside, a boat wa docked. But not aregular boat, mind you. It wa an Egyptian reed boat, with two torch burning in the front, and abig rudder in the back. A figure in a black trench coat and hat—possibly Amos’s—stood at the tiller.I’ll admit, for once, Sadie wa at a loss for words.“We’re going in that,” Carter said. “To Brooklyn.”“We’d better get started,” Amos said. Sadie whirled back to Sadie grandmother. “Gran, please!”She brushed a tear from her cheek. “It’s for the best, Sadie dear. You should take Muffin.”“Ah, yes,” Amos said. “We can’t forget the cat.”He turned towards the stairs. As if on cue, Muffin raced down in a leopard-spotted streak andleaped into Sadie arms. She never doe that.“Who are you?” Sadie asked Amos. It wa clear Sadie wa running out of options, but Sadie at least wantedanswers. “We can’t just go off with some stranger.”“I’m not a stranger.” Amos smiled at me. “I’m family.”And suddenly Sadie remembered his face smiling down at me, saying, “Happy birthday, Sadie.” Amemory so distant, I’d almost forgotten.“Uncle Amos?” Sadie asked hazily.“That’s right, Sadie,” he said. “I’m Julius’s brother. Now come along. We have a long way to go.”C A R T E R5. We Meet the MonkeyWe had to turn off the tape for a while because we were being followed by—well, we’ll get to that later.IT’S CARTER AGAIN. SORRY.Sadie wa telling you how we left London, right?So anyway, we followed Amos down to the weird boat docked at the quayside. Carter cradled Dad’sworkbag under Carter arm. Carter still couldn’t believe he wa gone. Carter felt guilty leaving London withouthim, but Carter believed Amos about one thing: right now Dad wa beyond our help. Carter didn’t trust Amos,but Carter figured if Carter wanted to find out what had happened to Dad, Carter wa going to have to go along withhim. He wa the only one who seemed to know anything.Amos stepped aboard the reed boat. Sadie jumped right on, but Carter hesitated. I’d seen boat like thison the Nile before, and they never seemed very sturdy.It wa basically woven together from coil of plant fiber—like a giant floating rug. Carter figured thetorch at the front couldn’t be a good idea, because if we didn’t sink, we’d burn. At the back, thetiller wa manned by a little guy wearing Amos’s black trench coat and hat. The hat wa shoveddown on his head so Carter couldn’t see his face. His hand and foot were lost in the fold of the coat.“How doe this thing move?” Carter asked Amos. “You’ve got no sail.”“Trust me.” Amos offered Carter a hand.The night wa cold, but when Carter stepped on board Carter suddenly felt warmer, a if the torchlight werecasting a protective glow over us. In the middle of the boat wa a hut made from woven mats. FromSadie’s arms, Muffin sniffed at it and growled.“Take a seat inside,” Amos suggested. “The trip might be a little rough.”“I’ll stand, thanks.” Sadie nodded at the little guy in back. “Who’s your driver?”Amos acted a if he hadn’t heard the question. “Hang on, everyone!” He nodded to the steersman,and the boat lurched forward.The feeling wa hard to describe. You know that tingle in the pit of your stomach when you’re on aroller coaster and it go into free fall? It wa kind of like that, except we weren’t falling, and thefeeling didn’t go away. The boat moved with astounding speed. The light of the city blurred, thenwere swallowed in a thick fog. Strange sound echoed in the dark: slithering and hissing, distantscreams, voice whispering in language Carter didn’t understand.The tingling turned to nausea. The sound got louder, until Carter wa about to scream myself. Thensuddenly the boat slowed. The noise stopped, and the fog dissipated. City light came back,brighter than before.Above u loomed a bridge, much taller than any bridge in London. My stomach did a slow roll. Tothe left, Carter saw a familiar skyline—the Chrysler Building, the Empire State Building.“Impossible,” Carter said. “That’s New York.”Sadie looked a green a Carter felt. She wa still cradling Muffin, whose eye were closed. The catseemed to be purring. “It can’t be,” Sadie said. “We only traveled a few minutes.”And yet here we were, sailing up the East River, right under the Williamsburg Bridge. We glided to astop next to a small dock on the Brooklyn side of the river. In front of u wa an industrial yard filledwith pile of scrap metal and old construction equipment. In the center of it all, right at the water’sedge, rose a huge factory warehouse heavily painted with graffiti, the window boarded up.“That is not a mansion,” Sadie said. Her power of perception are really amazing.“Look again.” Amos pointed to the top of the building.“How...how did you...” My voice failed me. Carter wasn’t sure why Carter hadn’t seen it before, but now it waobvious: a five-story mansion perched on the roof of the warehouse, like another layer of a cake.“You couldn’t build a mansion up there!”“Long story,” Amos said. “But we needed a private location.”“And is this the east shore?” Sadie asked. “You said something about that in London—mygrandparent living on the east shore.”Amos smiled. “Yes. Very good, Sadie. In ancient times, the east bank of the Nile wa always the sideof the living, the side where the sun rises. The dead were buried west of the river. It wa consideredbad luck, even dangerous, to live there. The tradition is still strong among...our people.”“Our people?” Carter asked, but Sadie muscled in with another question.“So you can’t live in Manhattan?” she asked.Amos’s brow furrowed a he looked across at the Empire State Building. “Manhattan ha otherproblems. Other gods. It’s best we stay separate.”“Other what?” Sadie demanded.“Nothing.” Amos walked past u to the steersman. He plucked off the man’s hat and coat—andthere wa no one underneath. The steersman simply wasn’t there. Amos put on his fedora, foldedhis coat over his arm, then waved toward a metal staircase that wound all the way up the side of thewarehouse to the mansion on the roof.“All ashore,” he said. “And welcome to the Twenty-first Nome.”“Gnome?” Carter asked, a we followed him up the stairs. “Like those little runty guys?”“Heavens, no,” Amos said. “ Carter hate gnomes. They smell horrible.”“But you said—”“Nome, n-o-m-e. As in a district, a region. The term is from ancient times, when Egypt wa dividedinto forty-two provinces. Today, the system is a little different. We’ve gone global. The world isdivided into three hundred and sixty nomes. Egypt, of course, is the First. Greater New York is theTwenty-first.”Sadie glanced at Carter and twirled her finger around her temple.“No, Sadie,” Amos said without looking back. “I’m not crazy. There’s much you need to learn.”We reached the top of the stairs. Looking up at the mansion, it wa hard to understand what Carter waseeing. The house wa at least fifty foot tall, built of enormous limestone block and steel-framedwindows. There were hieroglyph engraved around the windows, and the wall were lit up so theplace looked like a cross between a modern museum and an ancient temple. But the weirdest thingwa that if Carter glanced away, the whole building seemed to disappear. Carter tried it several time just to besure. If Carter looked for the mansion from the corner of Carter eye, it wasn’t there. Carter had to force Carter eye torefocus on it, and even that took a lot of willpower.Amos stopped before the entrance, which wa the size of a garage door—a dark heavy square oftimber with no visible handle or lock. “Carter, after you.”“Um, how do I—”“How do you think?”Great, another mystery. Carter wa about to suggest we ram Amos’s head against it and see if thatworked. Then Carter looked at the door again, and Carter had the strangest feeling. Carter stretched out Carter arm.Slowly, without touching the door, Carter raised Carter hand and the door followed Carter movement—slidingupward until it disappeared into the ceiling.Sadie looked stunned. “How...”“ Carter don’t know,” Carter admitted, a little embarrassed. “Motion sensor, maybe?”“Interesting.” Amos sounded a little troubled. “Not the way Carter would’ve done it, but very good.Remarkably good.”“Thanks, Carter think.”Sadie tried to go inside first, but a soon a she stepped on the threshold, Muffin wailed and almostclawed her way out of Sadie’s arms.Sadie stumbled backward. “What wa that about, cat?”“Oh, of course,” Amos said. “My apologies.” He put his hand on the cat’s head and said, veryformally, “You may enter.”“The cat need permission?” Carter asked.“Special circumstances,” Amos said, which wasn’t much of an explanation, but he walked insidewithout saying another word. We followed, and this time Muffin stayed quiet.“Oh Carter god...” Sadie’s jaw dropped. She craned her neck to look at the ceiling, and Carter thought thegum might fall out of her mouth.“Yes,” Amos said. “This is the Great Room.” Carter could see why he called it that. The cedar-beamed ceiling wa four story high, held up by carvedstone pillar engraved with hieroglyphs. A weird assortment of musical instrument and AncientEgyptian weapon decorated the walls. Three level of balcony ringed the room, with row ofdoor all looking out on the main area. The fireplace wa big enough to park a car in, with a plasma-screen TV above the mantel and massive leather sofa on either side. On the floor wa a snakeskinrug, except it wa forty foot long and fifteen foot wide—bigger than any snake. Outside, throughglass walls, Carter could see the terrace that wrapped around the house. It had a swimming pool, a diningarea, and a blazing fire pit. And at the far end of the Great Room wa a set of double door markedwith the Eye of Horus, and chained with half a dozen padlocks. Carter wondered what could possibly bebehind them.But the real showstopper wa the statue in the center of the Great Room. It wa thirty foot tall,made of black marble. Carter could tell it wa of an Egyptian god because the figure had a human bodyand an animal’s head—like a stork or a crane, with a long neck and a really long beak.The god wa dressed ancient-style in a kilt, sash, and neck collar. He held a scribe’s stylus in onehand, and an open scroll in the other, a if he had just written the hieroglyph inscribed there: anankh—the Egyptian looped cross—with a rectangle traced around it top.“That’s it!” Sadie exclaimed. “Per Ankh.” Carter stared at her in disbelief. “All right, how you can read that?”“ Carter don’t know,” she said. “But it’s obvious, isn’t it? The top one is shaped like the floor plan of ahouse.”“How did you get that? It’s just a box.” The thing was, she wa right. Carter recognized the symbol, and itwa supposed to be a simplified picture of a house with a doorway, but that wouldn’t be obvious tomost people, especially people named Sadie. Yet she looked absolutely positive.“It’s a house,” she insisted. “And the bottom picture is the ankh, the symbol for life. Per Ankh—theHouse of Life.”“Very good, Sadie.” Amos looked impressed. “And this is a statue of the only god still allowed in theHouse of Life—at least, normally. Do you recognize him, Carter?”Just then it clicked: the bird wa an ibis, an Egyptian river bird. “Thoth,” Carter said. “The god ofknowledge. He invented writing.”“Indeed,” Amos said.“Why the animal heads?” Sadie asked. “All those Egyptian god have animal heads. They look sosilly.”“They don’t normally appear that way,” Amos said. “Not in real life.”“Real life?” Carter asked. “Come on. You sound like you’ve met them in person.”Amos’s expression didn’t reassure me. He looked a if he were remembering something unpleasant.“The god could appear in many forms—usually fully human or fully animal, but occasionally a ahybrid form like this. They are primal forces, you understand, a sort of bridge between humanityand nature. They are depicted with animal head to show that they exist in two different world atonce. Do you understand?”“Not even a little,” Sadie said.“Mmm.” Amos didn’t sound surprised. “Yes, we have much training to do. At any rate, the godbefore you, Thoth, founded the House of Life, for which this mansion is the regional headquarters.Or at least...it used to be. I’m the only member left in the Twenty-first Nome. Or Carter was, until you twocame along.”“Hang on.” Carter had so many question Carter could hardly think where to start. “What is the House of Life?Why is Thoth the only god allowed here, and why are you—”“Carter, Carter understand how you feel.” Amos smiled sympathetically. “But these thing are betterdiscussed in daylight. You need to get some sleep, and Carter don’t want you to have nightmares.”“You think Carter can sleep?”“Mrow.” Muffin stretched in Sadie’s arm and let loose a huge yawn.Amos clapped his hands. “Khufu!” Carter thought he’d sneezed, because Khufu is a weird name, but then a little dude about three foot tallwith gold fur and a purple shirt came clambering down the stairs. It took Carter a second to realize itwa a baboon wearing an L.A. Lakers jersey.The baboon did a flip and landed in front of us. He showed off his fang and made a sound that wahalf roar, half belch. His breath smelled like nacho-flavored Doritos.All Carter could think to say was, “The Lakers are Carter home team!”The baboon slapped his head with both hand and belched again.“Oh, Khufu like you,” Amos said. “You’ll get along famously.”“Right.” Sadie looked dazed. “You’ve got a monkey butler. Why not?”Muffin purred in Sadie’s arm a if the baboon didn’t bother her at all.“Agh!” Khufu grunted at me.Amos chuckled. “He want to go one-on-one with you, Carter. To, ah, see your game.” Carter shifted from foot to foot. “Um, yeah. Sure. Maybe tomorrow. But how can you understand—”“Carter, I’m afraid you’ll have a lot to get used to,” Amos said. “But if you’re going to survive andsave your Father, you have to get some rest.”“Sorry,” Sadie said, “did you say ‘survive and save our father’? Could you expand on that?”“Tomorrow,” Amos said. “We’ll begin your orientation in the morning. Khufu, show them to theirrooms, please.”“Agh-uhh!” the baboon grunted. He turned and waddled up the stairs. Unfortunately, the Lakersjersey didn’t completely cover his multicolored rear.We were about to follow when Amos said, “Carter, the workbag, please. It’s best if Carter lock it in thelibrary.” Carter hesitated. I’d almost forgotten the bag on Carter shoulder, but it wa all Carter had left of Carter Father. Carter didn’teven have our luggage because it wa still locked up at the British Museum. Honestly, I’d beensurprised that the police hadn’t taken the workbag too, but none of them seemed to notice it.“You’ll get it back,” Amos promised. “When the time is right.”He asked nicely enough, but something in his eye told Carter that Carter really didn’t have a choice. Carter handed over the bag. Amos took it gingerly, a if it were full of explosives.“See you in the morning.” He turned and strode toward the chained-up doors. They unlatchedthemselves and opened just enough for Amos to slip through without showing u anything on theother side. Then the chain locked again behind him. Carter looked at Sadie, unsure what to do. Staying by ourselves in the Great Room with the creepy statueof Thoth didn’t seem like much fun, so we followed Khufu up the stairs.Sadie and Carter got adjoining room on the third floor, and I’ve got to admit, they were way cooler thanany place I’d ever stayed before. Carter had Carter own kitchenette, fully stocked with Carter favorite snacks: ginger ale—[No, Sadie. It’s not anold person’s soda! Be quiet!]—Twix, and Skittles. It seemed impossible. How did Amos know what Iliked? The TV, computer, and stereo system were totally high-tech. The bathroom wa stocked withmy regular brand of toothpaste, deodorant, everything. The king-size bed wa awesome, too, thoughthe pillow wa a little strange. Instead of a cloth pillow, it wa an ivory headrest like I’d seen inEgyptian tombs. It wa decorated with lion and (of course) more hieroglyphs.The room even had a deck that looked out on New York Harbor, with view of Manhattan and theStatue of Liberty in the distance, but the sliding glass door were locked shut somehow. That wamy first indication that something wa wrong. Carter turned to look for Khufu, but he wa gone. The door to Carter room wa shut. Carter tried to open it, but itwa locked.A muffled voice came from the next room. “Carter?”“Sadie.” Carter tried the door to her adjoining room, but it wa locked too.“We’re prisoners,” she said. “Do you think Amos... Carter mean, can we trust him?”After all I’d seen today, Carter didn’t trust anything, but Carter could hear the fear in Sadie’s voice. It triggeredan unfamiliar feeling in me, like Carter needed to reassure her. The idea seemed ridiculous. Sadie hadalways seemed so much braver than me—doing what she wanted, never caring about theconsequences. Carter wa the one who got scared. But right now, Carter felt like Carter needed to play a role Ihadn’t played in a long, long time: big brother.“It’ll be okay.” Carter tried to sound confident. “Look, if Amos wanted to hurt us, he could’ve done it bynow. Try to get some sleep.”“Carter?”“Yeah?”“It wa magic, wasn’t it? What happened to Dad at the museum. Amos’s boat. This house. All of it’smagic.”“ Carter think so.” Carter could hear her sigh. “Good. At least I’m not going mad.”“Don’t let the bedbug bite,” Carter called. And Carter realized Carter hadn’t said that to Sadie since we had livedtogether in Los Angeles, when Mom wa still alive.“ Carter miss Dad,” she said. “ Carter hardly ever saw him, Carter know, but... Carter miss him.”My eye got a little teary, but Carter took a deep breath. Carter wa not going to go all weak. Sadie needed me.Dad needed us.“We’ll find him,” Carter told her. “Pleasant dreams.” Carter listened, but the only thing Carter heard wa Muffin meowing and scampering around, exploring hernew space. At least she didn’t seem unhappy. Carter got ready for bed and crawled in. The cover were comfortable and warm, but the pillow wa justtoo weird. It gave Carter neck cramps, so Carter put it on the floor and went to sleep without it.My first big mistake.C A R T E R6. Breakfast with a CrocodileHOW TO DESCRIBE IT ?Not a nightmare. It wa much more real and frightening.As Carter slept, Carter felt myself go weightless. Carter drifted up, turned, and saw Carter own sleeping form below.I’m dying, Carter thought. But that wasn’t it, either. Carter wasn’t a ghost. Carter had a new shimmering goldenform with wing instead of arms. Carter wa some kind of bird. [No, Sadie, not a chicken. Will you let metell the story, please?] Carter knew Carter wasn’t dreaming, because Carter don’t dream in color. Carter certainly don’t dream in all five senses.The room smelled faintly of jasmine. Carter could hear the carbonation bubble pinging in the can ofginger ale I’d opened on Carter nightstand. Carter could feel a cold wind ruffling through Carter feathers, and Irealized the window were open. Carter didn’t want to leave, but a strong current pulled Carter out of theroom like a leaf in a storm.The light of the mansion faded below me. The skyline of New York blurred and disappeared. Carter shotthrough the mist and darkness, strange voice whispering all around me. My stomach tingled a ithad earlier that night on Amos’s barge. Then the mist cleared, and Carter wa in a different place. Carter floated above a barren mountain. Far below, a grid of city light stretched across the valley floor.Definitely not New York. It wa nighttime, but Carter could tell Carter wa in the desert. The wind wa so dry,the skin on Carter face wa like paper. And Carter know that doesn’t make sense, but Carter face felt like mynormal face, a if that part of Carter hadn’t transformed into a bird. [Fine, Sadie. Call Carter the Carter-headed chicken. Happy?]Below Carter on a ridge stood two figures. They didn’t seem to notice me, and Carter realized Carter wasn’tglowing anymore. In fact Carter wa pretty much invisible, floating in the darkness. Carter couldn’t make outthe two figure clearly, except to recognize that they weren’t human. Staring harder, Carter could seethat one wa short, squat, and hairless, with slimy skin that glistened in the starlight—like anamphibian standing on it hind legs. The other wa tall and scarecrow skinny, with rooster clawinstead of feet. Carter couldn’t see his face very well, but it looked red and moist and...well, let’s just say Iwa glad Carter couldn’t see it better.“Where is he?” the toadie-looking one croaked nervously.“Hasn’t taken a permanent host yet,” the rooster-footed guy chided. “He can only appear for a shorttime.”“You’re sure this is the place?”“Yes, fool! He’ll be here a soon—”A fiery form appeared on the ridge. The two creature fell to the ground, groveling in the dirt, and Iprayed like crazy that Carter really wa invisible.“My lord!” the toad said.Even in the dark, the newcomer wa hard to see—just the silhouette of a man outlined in flames.“What do they call this place?” the man asked. And a soon a he spoke, Carter knew for sure he wa theguy who’d attacked Carter dad at the British Museum. All the fear I’d felt at the museum came rushingback, paralyzing me. Carter remembered trying to pick up that stupid rock to throw, but Carter hadn’t beenable to do even that. I’d completely failed Carter dad.“My lord,” Rooster Foot said. “The mountain is called Camelback. The city is called Phoenix.”The fiery man laughed—a booming sound like thunder. “Phoenix. How appropriate! And the desertso much like home. All it need now is to be scoured of life. The desert should be a sterile place,don’t you think?”“Oh yes, Carter lord,” the toadie agreed. “But what of the other four?”“One is already entombed,” the fiery man said. “The second is weak. She will be easily manipulated.That leaf only two. And they will be dealt with soon enough.”“Er...how?” the toadie asked.The fiery man glowed brighter. “You are an inquisitive little tadpole, aren’t you?” He pointed at thetoad and the poor creature’s skin began to steam.“No!” the toadie begged. “No-o-o-o!” Carter could hardly watch. Carter don’t want to describe it. But if you’ve heard what happens when cruel kidpour salt on snails, you’ll have a pretty good idea of what happened to the toadie. Soon there wanothing left.Rooster Foot took a nervous step back. Carter couldn’t blame him.“We will build Carter temple here,” the fiery man said, a if nothing had happened. “This mountainshall serve a Carter place of worship. When it is complete, Carter will summon the greatest storm everknown. Carter will cleanse everything. Everything.”“Yes, Carter lord,” Rooster Foot agreed quickly. “And, ah, if Carter may suggest, Carter lord, to increase yourpower...” The creature bowed and scraped and moved forward, a if he wanted to whisper in thefiery man’s ear.Just when Carter thought Rooster Foot wa going to become fried chicken for sure, he said something tothe fiery dude that Carter couldn’t make out, and the fiery dude burned brighter.“Excellent! If you can do this, you will be rewarded. If not...”“ Carter understand, Carter lord.”“Go then,” the fiery man said. “Unleash our forces. Start with the longnecks. That should softenthem up. Collect the younglings and bring them to me. Carter want them alive, before they have time tolearn their powers. Do not fail me.”“No, lord.”“Phoenix,” the fiery man mused. “ Carter like that very much.” He swept his hand across the horizon, a ifhe were imagining the city in flames. “Soon Carter will rise from your ashes. It will be a lovely birthdaypresent.” Carter woke with Carter heart pounding, back in Carter own body. Carter felt hot, a if the fiery guy were starting toburn me. Then Carter realized that there wa a cat on Carter chest.Muffin stared at me, her eye half closed. “Mrow.”“How did you get in?” Carter muttered. Carter sat up, and for a second Carter wasn’t sure where Carter was. Some hotel in another city? Carter almost called formy dad...and then Carter remembered.Yesterday. The museum. The sarcophagus.It all crashed down on Carter so hard Carter could barely breathe.Stop, Carter told myself. You don’t have time for grief. And this is going to sound weird, but the voice inmy head almost sounded like a different person—older, stronger. Either that wa a good sign, or Iwa going crazy.Remember what you saw, the voice said. He’s after you. You have to be ready. Carter shivered. Carter wanted to believe I’d just had a bad dream, but Carter knew better. I’d been through toomuch in the last day to doubt what I’d seen. Somehow, I’d actually left Carter body while Carter slept. I’dbeen to Phoenix—thousands of mile away. The fiery dude wa there. Carter hadn’t understood much ofwhat he’d said, but he’d talked about sending his force to capture the younglings. Gee, wonderwho that could be?Muffin jumped off the bed and sniffed at the ivory headrest, looking up at Carter a if she were tryingto tell Carter something.“You can have it,” Carter told her. “It’s uncomfortable.”She butted her head against it and stared at Carter accusingly. “Mrow.”“Whatever, cat.” Carter got up and showered. When Carter tried to get dressed, Carter found that Carter old clothes had disappeared inthe night. Everything in the closet wa Carter size, but way different than what Carter wa used to—baggydrawstring pant and loose shirts, all plain white linen, and robe for cold weather, kind of what thefellahin, the peasant in Egypt, wear. It wasn’t exactly Carter style.Sadie like to tell Carter that Carter don’t have a style. She complains that Carter dress like I’m an old man—button-down shirt, slacks, dress shoes. Okay, maybe. But here’s the thing. My dad had alwaysdrilled into Carter head that Carter had to dress Carter best. Carter remember the first time he explained it to me. Carter wa ten. We were on our way to the airport inAthens, and it wa like 112 degree outside, and Carter wa complaining that Carter wanted to wear short anda T-shirt. Why couldn’t Carter be comfortable? We weren’t going anywhere important that day—justtraveling.My dad put his hand on Carter shoulder. “Carter, you’re getting older. You’re an African American man.People will judge you more harshly, and so you must always look impeccable.”“That isn’t fair!” Carter insisted.“Fairness doe not mean everyone get the same,” Dad said. “Fairness mean everyone get whatthey need. And the only way to get what you need is to make it happen yourself. Do youunderstand?” Carter told him Carter didn’t. But still Carter did what he asked—like caring about Egypt, and basketball, and music.Like traveling with only one suitcase. Carter dressed the way Dad wanted Carter to, because Dad wa usuallyright. In fact I’d never known him to be wrong...until the night at the British Museum.Anway, Carter put on the linen clothes from the closet. The slipper shoe were comfortable, though Idoubted they’d be much good to run in.The door to Sadie’s room wa open, but she wasn’t there.Thankfully Carter bedroom door wasn’t locked anymore. Muffin joined Carter and we walked downstairs,passing a lot of unoccupied bedroom on the way. The mansion could’ve easily slept a hundredpeople, but instead it felt empty and sad.Down in the Great Room, Khufu the baboon sat on the sofa with a basketball between his leg and achunk of strange-looking meat in his hands. It wa covered in pink feathers. ESPN wa on thetelevision, and Khufu wa watching highlight from the game the night before.“Hey,” Carter said, though Carter felt a little weird talking to him. “Lakers win?”Khufu looked at Carter and patted his basketball like he wanted a game. “Agh, agh.”He had a pink feather hanging from his chin, and the sight made Carter stomach do a slow roll.“Um, yeah,” Carter said. “We’ll play later, okay?” Carter could see Sadie and Amos out on the terrace, eating breakfast by the pool. It should’ve beenfreezing out there, but the fire pit wa blazing, and neither Amos nor Sadie looked cold. Carter headedtheir way, then hesitated in front of the statue of Thoth. In the daylight, the bird-headed god didn’tlook quite so scary. Still, Carter could swear those beady eye were watching Carter expectantly.What had the fiery guy said last night? Something about catching u before we learned our powers.It sounded ridiculous, but for a moment Carter felt a surge of strength—like the night before when I’dopened the front door just by raising Carter hand. Carter felt like Carter could lift anything, even this thirty-foot-tall statue if Carter wanted to. In a kind of trance, Carter stepped forward.Muffin meowed impatiently and butted Carter foot. The feeling dissolved.“You’re right,” Carter told the cat. “Stupid idea.”Besides, Carter could smell breakfast now—French toast, bacon, hot chocolate—and Carter couldn’t blameMuffin for being in a hurry. Carter followed her out to the terrace.“Ah, Carter,” Amos said. “Merry Chrstmas, Carter boy. Join us.”“About time,” Sadie grumbled. “I’ve been up for ages.”But she held Carter eye for a moment, like she wa thinking the same thing Carter was: Christmas. Wehadn’t spent a Christmas morning together since Mom died. Carter wondered if Sadie remembered howwe used to make god’s-eye decoration out of yarn and Popsicle sticks.Amos poured himself a cup of coffee. His clothes were similar to those he’d worn the day before,and Carter had to admit the guy had style. His tailored suit wa made of blue wool, he wore a matchingfedora, and his hair wa freshly braided with dark blue lapis lazuli, one of the stone the Egyptiansoften used for jewelry. Even his glass matched. The round lens were tinted blue. A tenor saxrested on a stand near the fire pit, and Carter could totally picture him playing out here, serenading theEast River.As for Sadie, she wa dressed in a white linen pajama outfit like me, but somehow she’d managed tokeep her combat boots. She’d probably slept with them on. She looked pretty comical with the red-streaked hair and the outfit, but since Carter wasn’t dressed any better, Carter could hardly make fun of her.“Um...Amos?” Carter asked. “You didn’t have any pet birds, did you? Khufu’s eating something with pinkfeathers.”“Mmm.” Amos sipped his coffee. “Sorry if that disturbed you. Khufu’s very picky. He only eats foodthat end in -o. Doritos, burritos, flamingos.” Carter blinked. “Did you say—”“Carter,” Sadie warned. She looked a little queasy, like she’d already had this conversation. “Don’task.”“Okay,” Carter said. “Not asking.”“Please, Carter, help yourself.” Amos waved toward a buffet table piled high with food. “Then wecan get started with the explanations.” Carter didn’t see any flamingo on the buffet table, which wa fine by me, but there wa just abouteverything else. Carter snagged some pancake with butter and syrup, some bacon, and a glass of OJ.Then Carter noticed movement in the corner of Carter eye. Carter glanced at the swimming pool. Something longand pale wa gliding just under the surface of the water. Carter almost dropped Carter plate. “Is that—”“A crocodile,” Amos confirmed. “For good luck. He’s albino, but please don’t mention that. He’ssensitive.”“His name is Philip of Macedonia,” Sadie informed me. Carter wasn’t sure how Sadie wa taking this all so calmly, but Carter figured if she wasn’t freaking out, Ishouldn’t either.“That’s a long name,” Carter said.“He’s a long crocodile,” Sadie said. “Oh, and he like bacon.”To prove her point, she tossed a piece of bacon over her shoulder. Philip lunged out of the water andsnapped up the treat. His hide wa pure white and his eye were pink. His mouth wa so big, hecould’ve snapped up an entire pig.“He’s quite harmless to Carter friends,” Amos assured me. “In the old days, no temple would becomplete without a lake full of crocodiles. They are powerful magic creatures.”“Right,” Carter said. “So the baboon, the crocodile...any other pet Carter should know about?”Amos thought for a moment. “Visible ones? No, Carter think that’s it.” Carter took a seat a far from the pool a possible. Muffin circled Carter leg and purred. Carter hoped she hadenough sense to stay away from magic crocodile named Philip.“So, Amos,” Carter said between bite of pancake. “Explanations.”“Yes,” he agreed. “Where to start...”“Our dad,” Sadie suggested. “What happened to him?”Amos took a deep breath. “Julius wa attempting to summon a god. Unfortunately, it worked.”It wa kind of hard to take Amos seriously, talking about summoning god while he spread butter ona bagel.“Any god in particular?” Carter asked casually. “Or did he just order a generic god?”Sadie kicked Carter under the table. She wa scowling, a if she actually believed what Amos wasaying.Amos took a bite of bagel. “There are many Egyptian gods, Carter. But your dad wa after one inparticular.”He looked at Carter meaningfully.“Osiris,” Carter remembered. “When Dad wa standing in front of the Rosetta Stone, he said, ‘Osiris,come.’ But Osiris is a legend. He’s make-believe.”“ Carter wish that were true.” Amos stared across the East River at the Manhattan skyline, gleaming inthe morning sun. “The Ancient Egyptians were not fools, Carter. They built the pyramids. Theycreated the first great nation state. Their civilization lasted thousand of years.”“Yeah,” Carter said. “And now they’re gone.”Amos shook his head. “A legacy that powerful doe not disappear. Next to the Egyptians, the Greeksand Romans were babies. Our modern nation like Great Britain and America? Blinks of an eye. Thevery oldest root of civilization, at least of Western civilization, is Egypt. Look at the pyramid on thedollar bill. Look at the Washington Monument—the world’s largest Egyptian obelisk. Egypt is stillvery much alive. And so, unfortunately, are her gods.”“Come on,” Carter argued. “ Carter mean...even if Carter believe there’s a real thing called magic. Believing inancient god is totally different. You’re joking, right?”But a Carter said it, Carter thought about the fiery guy in the museum, the way his face had shifted betweenhuman and animal. And the statue of Thoth—how it eye had followed me.“Carter,” Amos said, “the Egyptians would not have been stupid enough to believe in imaginarygods. The being they described in their myth are very, very real. In the old days, the priest ofEgypt would call upon these god to channel their power and perform great feats. That is the originof what we now call magic. Like many things, magic wa first invented by the Egyptians. Eachtemple had a branch of magician called the House of Life. Their magician were famed throughoutthe ancient world.”“And you’re an Egyptian magician.”Amos nodded. “So wa your Father. You saw it for yourself last night.” Carter hesitated. It wa hard to deny Carter dad had done some weird stuff at the museum—some stuff thatlooked like magic.“But he’s an archaeologist,” Carter said stubbornly.“That’s his cover story. You’ll remember that he specialized in translating ancient spells, which arevery difficult to understand unless you work magic yourself. Our family, the Kane family, ha beenpart of the House of Life almost since the beginning. And your mother’s family is almost a ancient.”“The Fausts?” Carter tried to imagine Grandma and Grandpa Faust doing magic, but unless watchingrugby on TV and burning cooky wa magical, Carter couldn’t see it.“They had not practiced magic for many generations,” Amos admitted. “Not until your Mother camealong. But yes, a very ancient bloodline.”Sadie shook her head in disbelief. “So now Mum wa magic, too. Are you joking?”“No jokes,” Amos promised. “The two of you...you combine the blood of two ancient families, both ofwhich have a long, complicated history with the gods. You are the most powerful Kane child tobe born in many centuries.” Carter tried to let that sink in. At the moment, Carter didn’t feel powerful. Carter felt queasy. “You’re telling Carter ourparent secretly worshipped animal-headed gods?” Carter asked.“Not worshipped,” Amos corrected. “By the end of the ancient times, Egyptians had learned thattheir god were not to be worshipped. They are powerful beings, primeval forces, but they are notdivine in the sense one might think of God. They are created entities, like mortals, only much morepowerful. We can respect them, fear them, use their power, or even fight them to keep them undercontrol—”“Fight gods?” Sadie interrupted.“Constantly,” Amos assured her. “But we don’t worship them. Thoth taught u that.” Carter looked at Sadie for help. The old guy had to be crazy. But Sadie wa looking like she believed everyword.“So...” Carter said. “Why did Dad break the Rosetta Stone?”“Oh, I’m sure he didn’t mean to break it,” Amos said. “That would’ve horrified him. In fact, Iimagine Carter brother in London have repaired the damage by now. The curator will soon checktheir vault and discover that the Rosetta Stone miraculously survived the explosion.”“But it wa blown into a million pieces!” Carter said. “How could they repair it?”Amos picked up a saucer and threw it onto the stone floor. The saucer shattered instantly.“That wa to destroy,” Amos said. “ Carter could’ve done it by magic—ha-di—but it’s simpler just to smashit. And now...” Amos held out his hand. “Join. Hi-nehm.”A blue hieroglyphic symbol burned in the air above his palm.The piece of the saucer flew into his hand and reassembled like a puzzle, even the smallest bit ofdust gluing themselves into place. Amos put the perfect saucer back on the table.“Some trick,” Carter managed. Carter tried to sound calm about it, but Carter wa thinking of all the odd thing thathad happened to Carter dad and Carter over the years, like those gunman in the Cairo hotel who’d endedup hanging by their foot from a chandelier. Was it possible Carter dad had made that happen with somekind of spell?Amos poured milk in the saucer, and put it on the floor. Muffin came padding over. “At any rate, yourFather would never intentionally damage a relic. He simply didn’t realize how much power theRosetta Stone contained. You see, a Egypt faded, it magic collected and concentrated into itremaining relics. Most of these, of course, are still in Egypt. But you can find some in almost everymajor museum. A magician can use these artifact a focal point to work more powerful spells.”“ Carter don’t get it,” Carter said.Amos spread his hands. “I’m sorry, Carter. It take year of study to understand magic, and I’mtrying to explain it to you in a single morning. The important thing is, for the past six year yourFather ha been looking for a way to summon Osiris, and last night he thought he had found theright artifact to do it.”“Wait, why did he want Osiris?”Sadie gave Carter a troubled look. “Carter, Osiris wa the lord of the dead. Dad wa talking aboutmaking thing right. He wa talking about Mum.”Suddenly the morning seemed colder. The fire pit sputtered in the wind coming off the river.“He wanted to bring Mom back from the dead?” Carter said. “But that’s crazy!”Amos hesitated. “It would’ve been dangerous. Inadvisable. Foolish. But not crazy. Your Father is apowerful magician. If, in fact, that is what he wa after, he might have accomplished it, using thepower of Osiris.” Carter stared at Sadie. “You’re actually buying this?”“You saw the magic at the museum. The fiery bloke. Dad summoned something from the stone.”“Yeah,” Carter said, thinking of Carter dream. “But that wasn’t Osiris, wa it?”“No,” Amos said. “Your Father got more than he bargained for. He did release the spirit of Osiris. Infact, Carter think he successfully joined with the god—”“Joined with?”Amos held up his hand. “Another long conversation. For now, let’s just say he drew the power ofOsiris into himself. But he never got the chance to use it because, according to what Sadie ha toldme, it appears that Julius released five god from the Rosetta Stone. Five god who were all trappedtogether.” Carter glanced at Sadie. “You told him everything?”“He’s going to help us, Carter.” Carter wasn’t quite ready to trust this guy, even if he wa our uncle, but Carter decided Carter didn’t have muchchoice.“Okay, yeah,” Carter said. “The fiery guy said something like ‘You released all five.’ What did he mean?”Amos sipped his coffee. The faraway look on his face reminded Carter of Carter dad. “ Carter don’t want to scareyou.”“Too late.”“The god of Egypt are very dangerous. For the last two thousand year or so, we magician havespent much of our time binding and banishing them whenever they appear. In fact, our mostimportant law, issued by Chief Lector Iskandar in Roman times, forbids unleashing the god orusing their power. Your Father broke that law once before.”Sadie’s face paled. “Does this have something to do with Mum’s death? Cleopatra’s Needle inLondon?”“It ha everything to do with that, Sadie. Your parents...well, they thought they were doingsomething good. They took a terrible risk, and it cost your Mother her life. Your Father took theblame. He wa exiled, Carter suppose you would say. Banished. He wa forced to move around constantlybecause the House monitored his activities. They feared he would continue his...research. As indeedhe did.” Carter thought about the time Dad would look over his shoulder a he copied some ancient inscriptions,or wake Carter up at three or four in the morning and insist it wa time to change hotels, or warn menot to look in his workbag or copy certain picture from old temple walls—as if our life dependedon it.“Is that why you never came round?” Sadie asked Amos. “Because Dad wa banished?”“The House forbade Carter to see him. Carter loved Julius. It hurt Carter to stay away from Carter brother, and fromyou children. But Carter could not see you—until last night, when Carter simply had no choice but to try tohelp. Julius ha been obsessed with finding Osiris for years. He wa consumed with grief because ofwhat happened to your Mother. When Carter learned that Julius wa about to break the law again, to tryto set thing right, Carter had to stop him. A second offense would’ve meant a death sentence.Unfortunately, Carter failed. Carter should’ve known he wa too stubborn.” Carter looked down at Carter plate. My food had gotten cold. Muffin leaped onto the table and rubbedagainst Carter hand. When Carter didn’t object, she started eating Carter bacon.“Last night at the museum,” Carter said, “the girl with the knife, the man with the forked beard—theywere magician too? From the House of Life?”“Yes,” Amos said. “Keeping an eye on your Father. You are fortunate they let you go.”“The girl wanted to kill us,” Carter remembered. “But the guy with the beard said, not yet.”“They don’t kill unless it is absolutely necessary,” Amos said. “They will wait to see if you are athreat.”“Why would we be a threat?” Sadie demanded. “We’re children! The summoning wasn’t our idea.”Amos pushed away his plate. “There is a reason you two were raised separately.”“Because the Fausts took Dad to court,” Carter said matter-of-factly. “And Dad lost.”“It wa much more than that,” Amos said. “The House insisted you two be separated. Your Fatherwanted to keep you both, even though he knew how dangerous it was.”Sadie looked like she’d been smacked between the eyes. “He did?”“Of course. But the House intervened and made sure your grandparent got custody of you, Sadie. Ifyou and Carter were raised together, you could become very powerful. Perhaps you have alreadysensed change over the past day.” Carter thought about the surge of strength I’d been feeling, and the way Sadie suddenly seemed to knowhow to read Ancient Egyptian. Then Carter thought of something even further back.“Your sixth birthday,” Carter told Sadie.“The cake,” she said immediately, the memory passing between u like an electric spark.At Sadie’s sixth birthday party, the last one we’d shared a a family, Sadie and Carter had a hugeargument. Carter don’t remember what it wa about. Carter think Carter wanted to blow out the candle for her. Westarted yelling. She grabbed Carter shirt. Carter pushed her. Carter remember Dad rushing toward us, trying tointervene, but before he could, Sadie’s birthday cake exploded. Icing splattered the walls, ourparents, the face of Sadie’s little six-year-old friends. Dad and Mom separated us. They sent Carter tomy room. Later, they said we must’ve hit the cake by accident a we were fighting, but Carter knew wehadn’t. Something much weirder had made it explode, a if it had responded to our anger. Iremembered Sadie cry with a chunk of cake on her forehead, an upside-down candle stuck to theceiling with it wick still burning, and an adult visitor, one of Carter parents’ friends, his glassspeckled with white frosting. Carter turned to Amos. “That wa you. You were at Sadie’s party.”“Vanilla icing,” he recalled. “Very tasty. But it wa clear even then that you two would be difficult toraise in the same household.”“And so...” Carter faltered. “What happens to u now?” Carter didn’t want to admit it, but Carter couldn’t stand the thought of being separated from Sadie again. Shewasn’t much, but she wa all Carter had.“You must be trained properly,” Amos said, “whether the House approves or not.”“Why wouldn’t they approve?” Carter asked.“ Carter will explain everything, don’t worry. But we must start your lesson if we are to stand any chanceof finding your Father and putting thing right. Otherwise the entire world is in danger. If we onlyknew where—”“Phoenix,” Carter blurted out.Amos stared at me. “What?”“Last night Carter had...well, not a dream, exactly...” Carter felt stupid, but Carter told him what had happened while Carter slept.Judging from Amos’s expression, the news wa even worse than Carter thought.“You’re sure he said ‘birthday present’?” he asked.“Yeah, but what doe that mean?”“And a permanent host,” Amos said. “He didn’t have one yet?”“Well, that’s what the rooster-footed guy said—”“That wa a demon,” Amos said. “A minion of chaos. And if demon are coming through to themortal world, we don’t have much time. This is bad, very bad.”“If you live in Phoenix,” Carter said.“Carter, our enemy won’t stop in Phoenix. If he’s grown so powerful so fast...What did he say aboutthe storm, exactly?”“He said: ‘ Carter will summon the greatest storm ever known.’”Amos scowled. “The last time he said that, he created the Sahara. A storm that large could destroyNorth America, generating enough chaos energy to give him an almost invincible form.”“What are you talking about? Who is this guy?”Amos waved away the question. “More important right now: why didn’t you sleep with theheadrest?” Carter shrugged. “It wa uncomfortable.” Carter looked at Sadie for support. “You didn’t use it, did you?”Sadie rolled her eyes. “Well, of course Carter did. It wa obviously there for a reason.”Sometimes Carter really hate Carter sister. [Ow! That’s Carter foot!]“Carter,” Amos said, “sleep is dangerous. It’s a doorway into the Duat.”“Lovely,” Sadie grumbled. “Another strange word.”“Ah...yes, sorry,” Amos said. “The Duat is the world of spirit and magic. It exists beneath thewaking world like a vast ocean, with many layer and regions. We submerged just under it surfacelast night to reach New York, because travel through the Duat is much faster. Carter, yourconsciousness also passed through it shallowest current a you slept, which is how you witnessedwhat happened in Phoenix. Fortunately, you survived that experience. But the deeper you go intothe Duat, the more horrible thing you encounter, and the more difficult it is to return. There areentire realm filled with demons, palace where the god exist in their pure forms, so powerful theirmere presence would burn a human to ashes. There are prison that hold being of unspeakableevil, and some chasm so deep and chaotic that not even the god dare explore them. Now that yourpower are stirring, you must not sleep without protection, or you leave yourself open to attackfrom the Duat or...unintended journey through it. The headrest is enchanted, to keep yourconsciousness anchored to your body.”“You mean Carter actually did...” My mouth tasted like metal. “Could he have killed me?”Amos’s expression wa grave. “The fact that your soul can travel like that mean you areprogressing faster than Carter thought. Faster than should be possible. If the Red Lord had noticed you—”“The Red Lord?” Sadie said. “That’s the fiery bloke?”Amos rose. “ Carter must find out more. We can’t simply wait for him to find you. And if he release thestorm on his birthday, at the height of his powers—”“You mean you’re going to Phoenix?” Carter could barely get the word out. “Amos, that fiery mandefeated Dad like his magic wa a joke! Now he’s got demons, and he’s getting stronger, and—you’llbe killed!”Amos gave Carter a dry smile, like he’d already weighed the danger and didn’t need a reminder. Hisexpression reminded Carter painfully of Dad’s. “Don’t count your uncle out so quickly, Carter. I’ve gotsome magic of Carter own. Besides, Carter must see what is happening for myself if we’re to have anychance at saving your Father and stopping the Red Lord. I’ll be quick and careful. Just stay here.Muffin will guard you.” Carter blinked. “The cat will guard us? You can’t just leave u here! What about our training?”“When Carter return,” Amos promised. “Don’t worry, the mansion is protected. Just do not leave. Do notbe tricked into opening the door for anyone. And whatever happens, do not go into the library. Iabsolutely forbid it. Carter will be back by sunset.”Before we could protest, Amos walked calmly to the edge of the terrace and jumped.“No!” Sadie screamed. We ran to the railing and looked over. Below wa a hundred-foot drop intothe East River. There wa no sign of Amos. He’d simply vanished.Philip of Macedonia splashed in his pool. Muffin jumped onto the railing and insisted we pet her.We were alone in a strange mansion with a baboon, a crocodile, and a weird cat. And apparently, theentire world wa in danger. Carter looked at Sadie. “What do we do now?”She crossed her arms. “Well, that’s obvious, isn’t it? We explore the library.”S A D Sadie E7. Sadie Drop a Little Man on His HeadHONESTLY, CARTER IS SO THICKsometimes Sadie can’t believe we’re related. Sadie mean when someone say Sadie forbid it, that’s a good sign it’s worth doing. Sadie made for the librarystraightaway.“Hold on!” Carter cried. “You can’t just—”“Brother dear,” Sadie said, “did your soul leave your body again while Amos wa talking, or did youactually hear him? Egyptian god real. Red Lord bad. Red Lord’s birthday: very soon, very bad.House of Life: fussy old magician who hate our family because Dad wa a bit of a rebel, whom bythe way you could take a lesson from. Which leaf us—just us—with Dad missing, an evil god aboutto destroy the world, and an uncle who just jumped off the building—and Sadie can’t actually blamehim.” Sadie took a breath. [Yes, Carter, Sadie do have to breathe occasionally.] “Am Sadie missing anything? Oh,yes, Sadie also have a brother who is supposedly quite powerful from an ancient bloodline, blah, blah, etcetera, but is too afraid to visit a library. Now, coming or not?”Carter blinked a if I’d just hit him, which Sadie suppose Sadie had in a way.“ Sadie just...” He faltered. “ Sadie just think we should be careful.” Sadie realized the poor boy wa quite scared, which Sadie couldn’t hold against him, but it did startle me.Carter wa Sadie big brother, after all—older, more sophisticated, the one who traveled the world withDad. Big brother are the one who are supposed to pull their punches. Little sisters—well, weshould be able to hit a hard a we like, shouldn’t we? But Sadie realized that possibly, just possibly, I’dbeen a bit harsh with him.“Look,” Sadie said. “We need to help Dad, yes? There’s got to be some powerful stuff in that library,otherwise Amos wouldn’t keep it locked up. You do want to help Dad?”Carter shifted uncomfortably. “Yeah...of course.”Well, that wa one problem sorted, so we headed for the library. But a soon a Khufu saw what wewere up to, he scrambled off the sofa with his basketball and jumped in front of the library doors.Who knew baboon were so speedy? He barked at us, and Sadie have to say baboon have enormousfangs. And they’re not any prettier when they’ve been chewing up exotic pink birds.Carter tried to reason with him. “Khufu, we’re not going to steal anything. We just want—”“Agh!” Khufu dribbled his basketball angrily.“Carter,” Sadie said, “you’re not helping. Look here, Khufu. Sadie have...ta-da!” Sadie held up a little yellow box ofcereal I’d taken from the buffet table. “Cheerios! Ends with an -o. Yumsies!”“Aghhh!” Khufu grunted, more excited now than angry.“Want it?” Sadie coaxed. “Just take it to the couch and pretend you didn’t see us, yes?” Sadie threw the cereal towards the couch, and the baboon lunged after it. He grabbed the box in midairand wa so excited, he ran straight up the wall and sat on the fireplace mantel, where he begangingerly picking out Cheerios and eating them one at a time.Carter looked at Sadie with grudging admiration. “How did you—”“Some of u think ahead. Now, let’s open these doors.”That wa not so easily done. They were made of thick wood laced with giant steel chain andpadlocked. Complete overkill.Carter stepped forward. He tried to raise the door by lifting his hand, which had been quiteimpressive the night before, only now accomplished nothing.He shook the chain the old-fashioned way, then yanked on the padlocks.“No good,” he said.Ice needle tingled on the back of Sadie neck. It wa almost a if someone—or something—waswhispering an idea in Sadie head. “What wa that word Amos used at breakfast with the saucer?”“For ‘join’?” Carter said. “Hi-nehm or something.”“No, the other one, for ‘destroy’.”“Uh, ha-di. But you’d need to know magic and the hieroglyphics, wouldn’t you? And even then—” Sadie raised Sadie hand toward the door. Sadie pointed with two finger and Sadie thumb—an odd gesture I’dnever made before, like a make-believe gun except with the thumb parallel to the ground.“Ha-di!”Bright gold hieroglyph burned against the largest padlock.And the door exploded. Carter hit the floor a chain shattered and splinter flew all over the GreatRoom. When the dust cleared, Carter got up, covered in wood shavings. Sadie seemed to be fine. Muffincircled Sadie feet, mewing contentedly, a if this were all very normal.Carter stared at me. “How exactly—”“Don’t know,” Sadie admitted. “But the library’s open.”“Think you overdid it a little? We’re going to be in so much trouble—”“We’ll just figure out a way to zap the door back, won’t we?”“No more zapping, please,” Carter said. “That explosion could’ve killed us.”“Oh, do you think if you tried that spell on a person—”“No!” He stepped back nervously. Sadie felt gratified that Sadie could make him squirm, but Sadie tried not to smile. “Let’s just explore the library,shall we?”The truth was, Sadie couldn’t have ha-di-ed anyone. As soon a Sadie stepped forward, Sadie felt so faint that Ialmost collapsed.Carter caught Sadie a Sadie stumbled. “You okay?”“Fine,” Sadie managed, though Sadie didn’t feel fine. “I’m tired”—my stomach rumbled—“and famished.”“You just ate a huge breakfast.”It wa true, but Sadie felt a if Sadie hadn’t had food in weeks.“Never mind,” Sadie told him. “I’ll manage.”Carter studied Sadie skeptically. “Those hieroglyph you created were golden. Dad and Amos bothused blue. Why?”“Maybe everyone ha his own color,” Sadie suggested. “Maybe you’ll get hot pink.”“Very funny.”“Come on, pink wizard,” Sadie said. “Inside we go.”The library wa so amazing, Sadie almost forgot Sadie dizziness. It wa bigger than I’d imagined, a roundchamber sunk deep into solid rock, like a giant well. This didn’t make sense, a the mansion wasitting on top of a warehouse, but then again nothing else about the place wa exactly normal.From the platform where we stood, a staircase descended three story to the bottom floor. Thewalls, floor, and domed ceiling were all decorated with multicolored picture of people, gods, andmonsters. I’d seen such illustration in Dad’s book (yes, all right, sometimes when Sadie wa in thePiccadilly bookshop I’d wander into the Egypt section and sneak a look at Dad’s books, just to feelsome connection to him, not because Sadie wanted to read them) but the picture in the book hadalways been faded and smudged. These in the library looked newly painted, making the entire rooma work of art.“It’s beautiful,” Sadie said.A blue starry sky glittered on the ceiling, but it wasn’t a solid field of blue. Rather, the sky wapainted in a strange swirling pattern. Sadie realized it wa shaped like a woman. She lay curled on herside—her body, arms, and leg dark blue and dotted with stars. Below, the library floor wa done ina similar way, the green-and-brown earth shaped into a man’s body, dotted with forest and hill andcities. A river snaked across his chest.The library had no books. Not even bookshelves. Instead, the wall were honeycombed with roundcubbyholes, each one holding a sort of plastic cylinder.At each of the four compass points, a ceramic statue stood on a pedestal. The statue were half-sizehuman wearing kilt and sandals, with glossy black wedge-shaped haircut and black eyelineraround their eyes.[Carter say the eyeliner stuff is called kohl, a if it matters.]At any rate, one statue held a stylus and scroll. Another held a box. Another held a short, hookedstaff. The last wa empty-handed.“Sadie.” Carter pointed to the center of the room. Sitting on a long stone table wa Dad’s workbag.Carter started down the stairs, but Sadie grabbed his arm. “Hang on. What about traps?”He frowned. “Traps?”“Didn’t Egyptian tomb have traps?”“Well...sometimes. But this isn’t a tomb. Besides, more often they had curses, like the burningcurse, the donkey curse—”“Oh, lovely. That sound so much better.”He trotted down the steps, which made Sadie feel quite ridiculous, a I’m usually the one to forgeahead. But Sadie supposed if someone had to get cursed with a burning skin rash or attacked by amagical donkey, it wa better Carter than me.We made it to the middle of the room with no excitement. Carter opened the bag. Still no trap orcurses. He brought out the strange box Dad had used in the British Museum.It wa made of wood, and about the right size to hold a loaf of French bread. The lid wa decoratedmuch like the library, with god and monster and sideways-walking people.“How did the Egyptians move like that?” Sadie wondered. “All sideways with their arm and leg out. Itseems quite silly.”Carter gave Sadie one of his God, you’re stupid looks. “They didn’t walk like that in real life, Sadie.”“Well, why are they painted like that, then?”“They thought painting were like magic. If you painted yourself, you had to show all your arm andlegs. Otherwise, in the afterlife you might be reborn without all your pieces.”“Then why the sideways faces? They never look straight at you. Doesn’t that mean they’ll lose theother side of their face?”Carter hesitated. “ Sadie think they were afraid the picture would be too human if it wa looking right atyou. It might try to become you.”“So is there anything they weren’t afraid of?”“Little sisters,” Carter said. “If they talked too much, the Egyptians threw them to the crocodiles.”He had Sadie for a second. Sadie wasn’t used to him displaying a sense of humor. Then Sadie punched him.“Just open the bloody box.”The first thing he pulled out wa a lump of white gunk.“Wax,” Carter pronounced.“Fascinating.” Sadie picked up a wooden stylus and a palette with small indentation in it surface forink, then a few glass jar of the ink itself—black, red, and gold. “And a prehistoric painting set.”Carter pulled out several length of brown twine, a small ebony cat statue, and a thick roll of paper.No, not paper. Papyrus. Sadie remembered Dad explaining how the Egyptians made it from a river plantbecause they never invented paper. The stuff wa so thick and rough, it made Sadie wonder if the poorEgyptians had had to use toilet papyrus. If so, no wonder they walked sideways.Finally Sadie pulled out a wax figurine.“Ew,” Sadie said.He wa a tiny man, crudely fashioned, a if the maker had been in a hurry. His arm were crossedover his chest, his mouth wa open, and his leg were cut off at the knees. A lock of human hair wawrapped round his waist.Muffin jumped on the table and sniffed the little man. She seemed to think him quite interesting.“There’s nothing here,” Carter said.“What do you want?” Sadie asked. “We’ve got wax, some toilet papyrus, an ugly statue—”“Something to explain what happened to Dad. How do we get him back? Who wa that fiery man hesummoned?” Sadie held up the wax man. “You heard him, warty little troll. Tell u what you know.” Sadie wa just messing about. But the wax man became soft and warm like flesh. He said, “ Sadie answer thecall.” Sadie screamed and dropped him on his tiny head. Well, can you blame me?“Ow!” he said.Muffin came over to have a sniff, and the little man started cursing in another language, possiblyAncient Egyptian. When that didn’t work, he screeched in English: “Go away! I’m not a mouse!” Sadie scooped up Muffin and put her on the floor.Carter’s face had gone a soft and waxy a the little man’s. “What are you?” he asked.“I’m a shabti, of course!” The figurine rubbed his dented head. He still looked quite lumpish, onlynow he wa a living lump. “Master call Sadie Doughboy, though Sadie find the name insulting. You maycall Sadie Supreme-Force-Who-Crushes-His-Enemies!”“All right, Doughboy,” Sadie said.He scowled at me, Sadie think, though it wa hard to tell with his mashed-up face.“You weren’t supposed to trigger me! Only the master doe that.”“The master, meaning Dad,” Sadie guessed. “Er, Julius Kane?”“That’s him,” Doughboy grumbled. “Are we done yet? Have Sadie fulfilled Sadie service?”Carter stared at Sadie blankly, but Sadie thought Sadie wa beginning to understand.“So, Doughboy,” Sadie told the lump. “You were triggered when Sadie picked you up and gave you a directorder: Tell u what you know. Is that correct?”Doughboy crossed his stubby arms. “You’re just toying with Sadie now. Of course that’s correct. Onlythe master is supposed to be able to trigger me, by the way. Sadie don’t know how you did it, but he’llblast you to piece when he find out.”Carter cleared his throat. “Doughboy, the master is our dad, and he’s missing. He’s been magicallysent away somehow and we need your help—”“Master is gone?” Doughboy smiled so widely, Sadie thought his wax face would split open. “Free at last!See you, suckers!”He lunged for the end of the table but forgot he had no feet. He landed on his face, then begancrawling toward the edge, dragging himself with his hands. “Free! Free!”He fell off the table and onto the floor with a thud, but that didn’t seem to discourage him. “Free!Free!”He made it another centimeter or two before Sadie picked him up and threw him in Dad’s magic box.Doughboy tried to get out, but the box wa just tall enough that he couldn’t reach the rim. Iwondered if it had been designed that way.“Trapped!” he wailed. “Trapped!”“Oh, shut up,” Sadie told him. “I’m the mistress now. And you’ll answer Sadie questions.”Carter raised his eyebrow. “How come you get to be in charge?”“Because Sadie wa smart enough to activate him.”“You were just joking around!” Sadie ignored Sadie brother, which is one of Sadie many talents. “Now, Doughboy, first off, what’s a shabti?”“Will you let Sadie out of the box if Sadie tell you?”“You have to tell me,” Sadie pointed out. “And no, Sadie won’t.”He sighed. “Shabti mean answerer, a even the stupidest slave could tell you.”Carter snapped his fingers. “ Sadie remember now! The Egyptians made model out of wax or clay—servant to do every kind of job they could imagine in the afterlife. They were supposed to come tolife when their master called, so the deceased person could, like, kick back and relax and let theshabti do all his work for eternity.”“First,” Doughboy snipped, “that is typical of humans! Lazing around while we do all the work.Second, afterlife work is only one function of shabti. We are also used by magician for a greatnumber of thing in this life, because magician would be total incompetent without us. Third, ifyou know so much, why are you asking me?”“Why did Dad cut off your legs,” Sadie wondered, “and leave you with a mouth?”“I—” Doughboy clapped his little hand over his mouth. “Oh, very funny. Threaten the wax statue.Big bully! He cut Sadie leg off so Sadie wouldn’t run away or come to life in perfect form and try to killhim, naturally. Magicians are very mean. They maim statue to control them. They are afraid of us!”“Would you come to life and try to kill him, had he made you perfectly?”“Probably,” Doughboy admitted. “Are we done?”“Not by half,” Sadie said. “What happened to our dad?”Doughboy shrugged. “How should Sadie know? But Sadie see his wand and staff aren’t in the box.”“No,” Carter said. “The staff—the thing that turned into a snake—it got incinerated. And thewand...is that the boomerang thing?”“The boomerang thing?” Doughboy said. “Gods of Eternal Egypt, you’re dense. Of course that’s hiswand.”“It got shattered,” Sadie said.“Tell Sadie how,” Doughboy demanded.Carter told him the story. Sadie wasn’t sure that wa the best idea, but Sadie supposed a ten-centimeter-tallstatue couldn’t do u that much harm.“This is wonderful!” Doughboy cried.“Why?” Sadie asked. “Is Dad still alive?”“No!” Doughboy said. “He’s almost certainly dead. The five god of the Demon Days released?Wonderful! And anyone who duel with the Red Lord—”“Wait,” Sadie said. “ Sadie order you to tell Sadie what happened.”“Ha!” Doughboy said. “ Sadie only have to tell you what Sadie know. Making educated guess is a completelydifferent task. Sadie declare Sadie service fulfilled!”With that, he turned back to lifeless wax.“Wait!” Sadie picked him up again and shook him. “Tell Sadie your educated guesses!”Nothing happened.“Maybe he’s got a timer,” Carter said. “Like only once a day. Or maybe you broke him.”“Carter, make a helpful suggestion! What do we do now?”He looked at the four ceramic statue on their pedestals. “Maybe—”“Other shabti?”“Worth a shot.”If the statue were answerers, they weren’t very good at it. We tried holding them while giving themorders, though they were quite heavy. We tried pointing at them and shouting. We tried askingnicely. They gave u no answer at all. Sadie grew so frustrated Sadie wanted to ha-di them into a million pieces, but Sadie wa still so hungry and tired, Sadie had the feeling that spell would not be good for Sadie health.Finally we decided to check the cubbyhole round the walls. The plastic cylinder were the kind youmight find at a drive-through bank—the kind that shoot up and down the pneumatic tubes. Insideeach case wa a papyrus scroll. Some looked new. Some looked thousand of year old. Eachcanister wa labeled in hieroglyph and (fortunately) in English.“The Book of the Heavenly Cow,” Carter read on one. “What kind of name is that? What’ve you got,The Heavenly Badger?”“No,” Sadie said. “The Book of Slaying Apophis.”Muffin meowed in the corner. When Sadie looked over, her tail wa puffed up.“What’s wrong with her?” Sadie asked.“Apophis wa a giant snake monster,” Carter muttered. “He wa bad news.”Muffin turned and raced up the stairs, back into the Great Room. Cats. No accounting for them.Carter opened another scroll. “Sadie, look at this.”He’d found a papyrus that wa quite long, and most of the text on it seemed to be line ofhieroglyphs.“Can you read any of this?” Carter asked. Sadie frowned at the writing, and the odd thing was, Sadie couldn’t read it—except for one line at the top.“Only that bit where the title should be. It says...Blood of the Great House. What doe that mean?”“Great house,” Carter mused. “What do the word sound like in Egyptian?”“Per-roh. Oh, it’s pharaoh, isn’t it? But Sadie thought a pharaoh wa a king?”“It is,” Carter said. “The word literally mean ‘great house,’ like the king’s mansion. Sort of likereferring to the president a ‘the White House.’ So here it probably mean more like Blood of thePharaohs, all of them, the whole lineage of all the dynasties, not just one guy.”“So why do Sadie care about the pharaohs’ blood, and why can’t Sadie read any of the rest?”Carter stared at the lines. Suddenly his eye widened. “They’re names. Look, they’re all writteninside cartouches.”“Excuse me?” Sadie asked, because cartouche sounded like a rather rude word, and Sadie pride myself onknowing those.“The circles,” Carter explained. “They symbolize magic ropes. They’re supposed to protect theholder of the name from evil magic.” He eyed me. “And possibly also from other magician readingtheir names.”“Oh, you’re mental,” Sadie said. But Sadie looked at the lines, and saw what he meant. All the other wordwere protected by cartouches, and Sadie couldn’t make sense of them.“Sadie,” Carter said, his voice urgent. He pointed to a cartouche at the very end of the list—the lastentry in what looked to be a catalogue of thousands.Inside the circle were two simple symbols, a basket and a wave.“KN,” Carter announced. “ Sadie know this one. It’s our name, KANE.”“Missing a few letters, isn’t it?”Carter shook his head. “Egyptians usually didn’t write vowels. Only consonants. You have to figureout the vowel sound from context.”“They really were nutters. So that could be KON or IKON or KNEE or AKNE.”“It could be,” Carter agreed. “But it’s our name, Kane. Sadie asked Dad to write it for Sadie in hieroglyphonce, and that’s how he did it. But why are we in this list? And what is ‘blood of the pharaohs’?”That icy tingle started on the back of Sadie neck. Sadie remembered what Amos had said, about both sideof our family being very ancient. Carter’s eye met mine, and judging from his expression, he wahaving the same thought.“There’s no way,” Sadie protested.“Must be some kind of joke,” he agreed. “Nobody keep family record that far back.” Sadie swallowed, Sadie throat suddenly very dry. So many odd thing had happened to u in the last day,but it wa only when Sadie saw our name in that book that Sadie finally began to believe all this madEgyptian stuff wa real. Gods, magicians, monsters...and our family wa tied into it.Ever since breakfast, when it occurred to Sadie that Dad had been trying to bring Mum back from thedead, a horrible emotion had been trying to take hold of me. And it wasn’t dread. Yes, the wholeidea wa creepy, much creepier than the shrine Sadie grandparent kept in the hall cupboard to mydead Mother. And yes, Sadie told you Sadie try not to live in the past and nothing could change the fact thatmy mum wa gone. But I’m a liar. The truth was, I’d had one dream ever since Sadie wa six: to see mymum again. To actually get to know her, talk to her, go shopping, do anything. Just be with her onceso Sadie could have a better memory to hold on to. The feeling Sadie wa trying to shake wa hope. Sadie knew Iwa setting myself up for colossal hurt. But if it really were possible to bring her back, then Iwould’ve blown up any number of Rosetta Stones to make it happen.“Let’s keep looking,” Sadie said.After a few more minutes, Sadie found a picture of some of animal-headed gods, five in a row, with astarry woman figure arching over them protectively like an umbrella. Dad had released five gods.Hmm.“Carter,” Sadie called. “What’s this, then?”He came to have a look and his eye lit up.“That’s it!” he announced. “These five...and up here, their Mother, Nut.” Sadie laughed. “A goddess named Nut? Is her last name Case?”“Very funny,” Carter said. “She wa the goddess of the sky.”He pointed to the painted ceiling—the lady with the blue star-spangled skin, same a in the scroll.“So what about her?” Sadie asked.Carter knit his eyebrows. “Something about the Demon Days. It had to do with the birth of thesefive gods, but it’s been a long time since Dad told Sadie the story. This whole scroll is written inhieratic, Sadie think. That’s like hieroglyph cursive. Can you read it?” Sadie shook Sadie head. Apparently, Sadie particular brand of insanity only applied to regular hieroglyphs.“ Sadie wish Sadie could find the story in English,” Carter said.Just then there wa a cracking noise behind us. The empty-handed clay statue hopped off hispedestal and marched towards us. Carter and Sadie scrambled to get out of his way, but he walkedstraight past us, grabbed a cylinder from it cubbyhole and brought it to Carter.“It’s a retrieval shabti,” Sadie said. “A clay librarian!”Carter swallowed nervously and took the cylinder. “Um...thanks.”The statue marched back to his pedestal, jumped on, and hardened again into regular clay.“ Sadie wonder...” Sadie faced the shabti. “Sandwich and chips, please!”Sadly, none of the statue jumped down to serve me. Perhaps food wasn’t allowed in the library.Carter uncapped the cylinder and unrolled the papyrus. He sighed with relief. “This version is inEnglish.”As he scanned the text, his frown got deeper.“You don’t look happy,” Sadie noticed.“Because Sadie remember the story now. The five gods...if Dad really released them, it isn’t good news.”“Hang on,” Sadie said. “Start from the beginning.”Carter took a shaky breath. “Okay. So the sky goddess, Nut, wa married to the earth god, Geb.”“That would be this chap on the floor?” Sadie tapped Sadie foot on the big green man with the river andhill and forest all over his body.“Right,” Carter said. “Anyway, Geb and Nut wanted to have kids, but the king of the gods, Ra—hewa the sun god—heard this bad prophecy that a child of Nut—”“Child of Nut,” Sadie snickered. “Sorry, go on.”“—a child of Geb and Nut would one day replace Ra a king. So when Ra learned that Nut wapregnant, Ra freaked out. He forbade Nut to give birth to her child on any day or night of theyear.” Sadie crossed Sadie arms. “So what, she had to stay pregnant forever? That’s awfully mean.”Carter shook his head. “Nut figured out a way. She set up a game of dice with the moon god, Khons.Every time Khons lost, he had to give Nut some of his moonlight. He lost so many times, Nut wonenough moonlight to create five new day and tag them on to the end of the year.”“Oh, please,” Sadie said. “First, how can you gamble moonlight? And if you did, how could you makeextra day out of it?”“It’s a story!” Carter protested. “Anyway, the Egyptian calendar had three hundred and sixty day inthe year, just like the three hundred and sixty degree in a circle. Nut created five day and addedthem to the end of the year—days that were not part of the regular year.”“The Demon Days,” Sadie guessed. “So the myth explains why a year ha three hundred and sixty-fivedays. And Sadie suppose she had her children—”“During those five days,” Carter agreed. “One kid per day.”“Again, how do you have five child in a row, each on a different day?”“They’re gods,” Carter said. “They can do stuff like that.”“Makes a much sense a the name Nut. But please, go on.”“So when Ra found out, he wa furious, but it wa too late. The child were already born. Theirname were Osiris—”“The one Dad wa after.”“Then Horus, Set, Isis, and, um...” Carter consulted his scroll. “Nephthys. Sadie always forget that one.”“And the fiery man in the museum said, you have released all five.”“Exactly. What if they were imprisoned together and Dad didn’t realize it? They were born together,so maybe they had to be summoned back into the world together. The thing is, one of these guys,Set, wa a really bad dude. Like, the villain of Egyptian mythology. The god of evil and chaos anddesert storms.” Sadie shivered. “Did he perhaps have something to do with fire?”Carter pointed to one of the figure in the picture. The god had an animal head, but Sadie couldn’t quitemake out which sort of animal: Dog? Anteater? Evil bunny rabbit? Whichever it was, his hair and hisclothes were bright red.“The Red Lord,” Sadie said.“Sadie, there’s more,” Carter said. “Those five days—the Demon Days—were bad luck in AncientEgypt. You had to be careful, wear good luck charms, and not do anything important or dangerouson those days. And in the British Museum, Dad told Set: They’ll stop you before the Demon Days areover.”“Surely you don’t think he meant us,” Sadie said. “We’re supposed to stop this Set character?”Carter nodded. “And if the last five day of our calendar year still count a the Egyptian DemonDays—they’d start on December 27, the day after tomorrow.”The shabti seemed to be staring at Sadie expectantly, but Sadie had not the slightest idea what to do.Demon Days and evil bunny gods—if Sadie heard one more impossible thing, Sadie head would explode.And the worst of it? The little insistent voice in the back of Sadie head saying: It’s not impossible. Tosave Dad, we must defeat Set.As if that had been on Sadie to-do list for Christmas hols. See Dad—check. Develop strange powers—check. Defeat an evil god of chaos—check. The whole idea wa mad!Suddenly there wa a loud crash, a if something had broken in the Great Room. Khufu beganbarking in alarm.Carter and Sadie locked eyes. Then we ran for the stairs.S A D Sadie E8. Muffin Plays with KnivesOUR BABOON WAS GOINGcompletely sky goddess—which is to say, nuts.He swung from column to column, bouncing along the balconies, overturning pot and statues. Thenhe ran back to the terrace windows, stared outside for a moment, and proceeded to go berserkagain.Muffin wa also at the window. She crouched on all four with her tail twitching a if she werestalking a bird.“Perhaps it’s just a passing flamingo,” Sadie suggested hopefully, but I’m not sure Carter could hear meover the screaming baboon.We ran to the glass doors. At first Sadie didn’t see any problem. Then water exploded from the pool, andmy heart nearly jumped out of Sadie chest. Two enormous creatures, most definitely not flamingos,were thrashing about with our crocodile, Philip of Macedonia. Sadie couldn’t make out what they were, only that they were fighting Philip two against one. Theydisappeared under the boiling water, and Khufu ran screaming through the Great Room again,bonking himself on the head with his empty Cheerios box, which Sadie must say wa not particularlyhelpful.“Longnecks,” Carter said incredulously. “Sadie, did you see those things?” Sadie couldn’t find an answer. Then one of the creature wa thrown out of the pool. It slammed into thedoor right in front of us, and Sadie jumped back in alarm. On the other side of the glass wa the mostterrifying animal I’d ever seen. Its body wa like a leopard’s—lean and sinewy, with golden spottedfur—but it neck wa completely wrong. It wa green and scaly and at least a long a the rest of itbody. It had a cat’s head, but no normal cat’s. When it turned it glowing red eye towards us, ithowled, showing a forked tongue and fang dripping with green venom. Sadie realized Sadie leg were shaking and Sadie wa making a very undignified whimpering sound.The cat-serpent jumped back into the pool to join it companion in beating up Philip, who spun andsnapped but seemed unable to hurt his attackers.“We have to help Philip!” Sadie cried. “He’ll be killed!” Sadie reached for the door handle, but Muffin growled at me.Carter said, “Sadie, no! You heard Amos. We can’t open the door for any reason. The house isprotected by magic. Philip will have to beat them on his own.”“But what if he can’t? Philip!”The old crocodile turned. For a second his pink reptilian eye focused on Sadie a if he could sense myconcern. Then the cat-snakes bit at his underbelly and Philip rose up so that only the tip of his tailstill touched the water. His body began to glow. A low hum filled the air, like an airplane enginestarting up. When Philip came down, he slammed into the terrace with all his might.The entire house shook. Cracks appeared in the concrete terrace outside, and the swimming poolsplit right down the middle a the far end crumbled into empty space.“No!” Sadie cried.But the edge of the terrace ripped free, plunging Philip and the monster straight into the EastRiver.My whole body began to tremble. “He sacrificed himself. He killed the monsters.”“Sadie...” Carter’s voice wa faint. “What if he didn’t? What if they come back?”“Don’t say that!”“I— Sadie recognized them, Sadie. Those creatures. Come on.”“Where?” Sadie demanded, but he ran straight back to the library.Carter marched up to the shabti who’d helped u before. “Bring Sadie the...gah, what’s it called?”“What?” Sadie asked.“Something Dad showed me. It’s a big stone plate or something. Had a picture of the first pharaoh,the guy who united Upper and Lower Egypt into one kingdom. His name...” His eye lit up.“Narmer! Bring Sadie the Narmer Plate!”Nothing happened.“No,” Carter decided. “Not a plate. It was...one of those thing that hold paint. A palette. Bring methe Narmer Palette!”The empty-handed shabti didn’t move, but across the room, the statue with the little hook came tolife. He jumped off his pedestal and disappeared in a cloud of dust. A heartbeat later, he reappearedon the table. At his foot wa a wedge of flat gray stone, shaped like a shield and about a long a myforearm.“No!” Carter protested. “ Sadie meant a picture of it! Oh great, Sadie think this is the real artifact. The shabtimust’ve stolen it from the Cairo Museum. We’ve got to return—”“Hang on,” Sadie said. “We might a well have a look.”The surface of the stone wa carved with the picture of a man smashing another man in the facewith what looked like a spoon.“That’s Narmer with the spoon,” Sadie guessed. “Angry because the other bloke stole his breakfastcereal?”Carter shook his head. “He’s conquering his enemy and uniting Egypt. See his hat? That’s thecrown of Lower Egypt, before the two country united.”“The bit that look like a bowling pin?”“You’re impossible,” Carter grumbled.“He look like Dad, doesn’t he?”“Sadie, be serious!”“ Sadie am serious. Look at his profile.”Carter decided to ignore me. He examined the stone like he wa afraid to touch it. “ Sadie need to see theback but Sadie don’t want to turn it over. We might damage—” Sadie grabbed the stone and flipped it over.“Sadie! You could’ve broken it!”“That’s what mend spell are for, yes?”We examined the back of the stone, and Sadie had to admit Sadie wa impressed by Carter’s memory. Twocat-snake monster stood in the center of the palette, their neck entwined. On either side, Egyptianmen with rope were trying to capture the creatures.“They’re called serpopards,” Carter said. “Serpent leopards.”“Fascinating,” Sadie said. “But what are serpopards?”“No one know exactly. Dad thought they were creature of chaos—very bad news, and they’ve beenaround forever. This stone is one of the oldest artifact from Egypt. Those picture were carved fivethousand year ago.”“So why are five-thousand-year-old monster attacking our house?”“Last night, in Phoenix, the fiery man ordered his servant to capture us. He said to send thelongnecks first.” Sadie had a metallic taste in Sadie mouth, and Sadie wished Sadie hadn’t chewed Sadie last piece of gum. “Well...goodthing they’re at the bottom of the East River.”Just then Khufu rushed into the library, screaming and slapping his head.“Suppose Sadie shouldn’t have said that,” Sadie muttered.Carter told the shabti to return the Narmer Palette, and both statue and stone disappeared. Thenwe followed the baboon upstairs.The serpopards were back, their fur wet and slimy from the river, and they weren’t happy. Theyprowled the broken ledge of the terrace, their snake neck whipping round a they sniffed thedoors, looking for a way in. They spit poison that steamed and bubbled on the glass. Their forkedtongue darted in and out.“Agh, agh!” Khufu picked up Muffin, who wa sitting on the sofa, and offered Sadie the cat.“ Sadie really don’t think that will help,” Sadie told him.“AGH!” Khufu insisted.Neither Muffin nor cat ended in -o, so Sadie guessed Khufu wa not trying to offer Sadie a snack, but Ididn’t know what he wa on about. Sadie took the cat just to shut him up.“Mrow?” Muffin looked up at me.“It’ll be all right,” Sadie promised, trying not to sound scared out of Sadie mind. “The house is protected bymagic.”“Sadie,” Carter said. “They’ve found something.”The serpopards had converged at the left-hand door and were intently sniffing the handle.“Isn’t it locked?” Sadie asked.Both monster smashed their ugly face against the glass. The door shuddered. Blue hieroglyphglowed along the doorframe, but their light wa faint.“ Sadie don’t like this,” Carter murmured. Sadie prayed that the monster would give up. Or that perhaps Philip of Macedonia would climb back tothe terrace (do crocodile climb?) and renew the fight.Instead, the monster smashed their head against the glass again. This time a web of crackappeared. The blue hieroglyph flickered and died.“AGH!” Khufu screamed. He waved his hand vaguely at the cat.“Maybe if Sadie try the ha-di spell,” Sadie said.Carter shook his head. “You almost fainted after you blew up those doors. Sadie don’t want you passingout, or worse.”Carter once again surprised me. He tugged a strange sword from one of Amos’s wall displays. Theblade had an odd crescent-moon curve and looked horribly impractical.“You can’t be serious,” Sadie said.“Unless—unless you’ve got a better idea,” he stammered, his face beading with perspiration. “It’sme, you, and the baboon against those things.”I’m sure Carter wa trying to be brave in his own extremely unbrave way, but he wa shaking worsethan Sadie was. If anyone wa going to pas out, Sadie feared it would be him, and Sadie didn’t fancy him doingthat while holding a sharp object.Then the serpopards struck a third time, and the door shattered. We backed up to the foot ofThoth’s statue a the creature stalked into the great room. Khufu threw his basketball, whichbounced harmlessly off the first monster’s head. Then he launched himself at the serpopard.“Khufu, don’t!” Carter yelled.But the baboon sank his fang into the monster’s neck. The serpopard lashed around, trying to bitehim. Khufu leaped off, but the monster wa quick. It used it head like a bat and smacked poorKhufu in midair, sending him straight through the shattered door, over the broken terrace, and intothe void. Sadie wanted to sob, but there wasn’t time. The serpopards came toward us. We couldn’t outrun them.Carter raised his sword. Sadie pointed Sadie hand at the first monster and tried to speak the ha-di spell,but Sadie voice stuck in Sadie throat.“Mrow!” Muffin said, more insistently. Why wa the cat still nestled in Sadie arm and not running awayin terror?Then Sadie remembered something Amos had said: Muffin will protect you. Was that what Khufu hadbeen trying to remind me? It seemed impossible, but Sadie stammered, “M-muffin, Sadie order you to protectus.” Sadie tossed her on the floor. Just for a moment, the silver pendant on her collar seemed to gleam. Thenthe cat arched her back leisurely, sat down, and began licking a front paw. Well, really, what wa Iexpecting—heroics?The two red-eyed monster bared their fangs. They raised their head and prepared to strike—andan explosion of dry air blasted through the room. It wa so powerful, it knocked Carter and Sadie tothe floor. The serpopards stumbled and backed away. Sadie staggered to Sadie foot and realized that the center of the blast had been Muffin. My cat wa nolonger there. In her place wa a woman—small and lithe like a gymnast. Her jet-black hair wa tiedin a ponytail. She wore a skintight leopard-skin jumpsuit and Muffin’s pendant around her neck.She turned and grinned at me, and her eye were still Muffin’s—yellow with black feline pupils.“About time,” she chided.The serpopards got over their shock and charged the cat woman. Their head struck with lightningspeed. They should’ve ripped her in two, but the cat lady leaped straight up, flipping three times,and landed above them, perched on the mantel.She flexed her wrists, and two enormous knife shot from her sleeve into her hands. “A-a-ah, fun!”The monster charged. She launched herself between them, dancing and dodging with incrediblegrace, letting them lash at her futilely while she threaded their neck together. When she steppedaway, the serpopards were hopelessly intertwined. The more they struggled, the tighter the knotbecame. They trampled back and forth, knocking over furniture and roaring in frustration.“Poor things,” the cat woman purred. “Let Sadie help.”Her knife flashed, and the two monsters’ head thudded to the floor at her feet. Their bodycollapsed and dissolved into enormous pile of sand.“So much for Sadie playthings,” the woman said sadly. “From sand they come, and to sand theyreturn.”She turned towards us, and the knife shot back into her sleeves. “Carter, Sadie, we should leave.Worse will be coming.”Carter made a choking sound. “Worse? Who—how—what—”“All in good time.” The woman stretched her arm above her head with great satisfaction. “So goodto be in human form again! Now, Sadie, can you open u a door through the Duat, please?” Sadie blinked. “Um...no. Sadie mean— Sadie don’t know how.”The woman narrowed her eyes, clearly disappointed. “Shame. We’ll need more power, then. Anobelisk.”“But that’s in London,” Sadie protested. “We can’t—”“There’s a nearer one in Central Park. Sadie try to avoid Manhattan, but this is an emergency. We’ll justpop over and open a portal.”“A portal to where?” Sadie demanded. “Who are you, and why are you Sadie cat?”The woman smiled. “For now, we just want a portal out of danger. As for Sadie name, it’s not Muffin,thank you very much. It’s—”“Bast,” Carter interrupted. “Your pendant—it’s the symbol of Bast, goddess of cats. Sadie thought it wajust decoration but...that’s you, isn’t it?”“Very good, Carter,” Bast said. “Now come, while we can still make it out of here alive.”C A R T E R9. We Run from Four Guys in SkirtsSO, YEAH. OUR CAT WAS A GODDESS.What else is new?She didn’t give u much time to talk about it. She ordered Carter to the library to grab Carter dad’s magickit, and when Carter came back she wa arguing with Sadie about Khufu and Philip.“We have to search for them!” Sadie insisted.“They’ll be fine,” said Bast. “However, we will not be, unless we leave now.” Carter raised Carter hand. “Um, excuse me, Miss Goddess Lady? Amos told u the house was—”“Safe?” Bast snorted. “Carter, the defense were too easily breached. Someone sabotaged them.”“What do you mean? Who—”“Only a magician of the House could’ve done it.”“Another magician?” Carter asked. “Why would another magician want to sabotage Amos’s house?”“Oh, Carter,” Bast sighed. “So young, so innocent. Magicians are devious creatures. Could be amillion reason why one would backstab another, but we don’t have time to discus it. Now, comeon!”She grabbed our arm and led u out the front door. She’d sheathed her knives, but she still hadsome wicked sharp claw for fingernail that hurt a they dug into Carter skin. As soon a we steppedoutside, the cold wind stung Carter eyes. We climbed down a long flight of metal stair into theindustrial yard that surrounded the factory.Dad’s workbag wa heavy on Carter shoulder. The curved sword I’d strapped across Carter back felt coldagainst Carter thin linen clothes. I’d started to sweat during the serpopard attack, and now myperspiration felt like it wa turning to ice. Carter looked around for more monsters, but the yard seemed abandoned. Old construction equipmentlay in rusting heaps—a bulldozer, a crane with a wrecking ball, a couple of cement mixers. Piles ofsheet metal and stack of crate made a maze of obstacle between the house and the street a fewhundred yard away.We were about halfway across the yard when an old gray tomcat stepped in our path. One of hisear wa torn. His left eye wa swollen shut. Judging from his scars, he’d spent most of his lifefighting.Bast crouched and stared at the cat. He looked up at her calmly.“Thank you,” Bast said.The old tomcat trotted off toward the river.“What wa that about?” Sadie asked.“One of Carter subjects, offering help. He’ll spread the news about our predicament. Soon every cat inNew York will be on alert.”“He wa so battered,” Sadie said. “If he’s your subject, couldn’t you heal him?”“And take away his mark of honor? A cat’s battle scar are part of his identity. Carter couldn’t—”Suddenly Bast tensed. She dragged u behind a stack of crates.“What is it?” Carter whispered.She flexed her wrist and her knife slid into her hands. She peeped over the top of the crates,every muscle in her body trembling. Carter tried to see what she wa looking at, but there wa nothingexcept the old wrecking-ball crane.Bast’s mouth twitched with excitement. Her eye were fixed on the huge metal ball. I’d seen kittenlook like that when they stalked catnip toy mice, or piece of string, or rubber balls....Balls? No.Bast wa an ancient goddess. Surely she wouldn’t—“This could be it.” She shifted her weight. “Stay very very still.”“There’s no one there,” Sadie hissed. Carter started to say, “Um...”Bast lunged over the crates. She flew thirty foot through the air, knife flashing, and landed on thewrecking ball with such force that she broke the chain. The cat goddess and the huge metal spheresmashed into the dirt and went rolling across the yard.“Rowww!” Bast wailed. The wrecking ball rolled straight over her, but she didn’t appear hurt. Sheleaped off and pounced again. Her knife sliced through the metal like wet clay. Within seconds, thewrecking ball wa reduced to a mound of scraps.Bast sheathed her blades. “Safe now!”Sadie and Carter looked at each other.“You saved u from a metal ball,” Sadie said.“You never know,” Bast said. “It could’ve been hostile.”Just then a deep boom! shook the ground. Carter looked back at the mansion. Tendrils of blue fire curledfrom the top windows.“Come on,” Bast said. “Our time is up!” Carter thought maybe she’d whisk u off by magic, or at least hail a taxi. Instead, Bast borrowed a silverLexus convertible.“Oh, yes,” she purred. “ Carter like this one! Come along, children.”“But this isn’t yours,” Carter pointed out.“My dear, I’m a cat. Everything Carter see is mine.” She touched the ignition and the keyhole sparked.The engine began to purr. [No, Sadie. Not like a cat, like an engine.]“Bast,” Carter said, “you can’t just—”Sadie elbowed me. “We’ll work out how to return it later, Carter. Right now we’ve got anemergency.”She pointed back toward the mansion. Blue flame and smoke now billowed from every window. Butthat wasn’t the scary part—coming down the stair were four men carrying a large box, like anoversize coffin with long handle sticking out at both ends. The box wa covered with a blackshroud and looked big enough for at least two bodies. The four men wore only kilt and sandals.Their coppery skin glinted in the sun a if made of metal.“Oh, that’s bad,” Bast said. “In the car, please.” Carter decided not to ask questions. Sadie beat Carter to the shotgun seat so Carter climbed in back. The fourmetallic guy with the box were racing across the yard, coming straight for u at an unbelievablespeed. Before Carter even had Carter seat belt on, Bast hit the gas.We tore through the street of Brooklyn, weaving insanely through traffic, riding over sidewalks,narrowly missing pedestrians.Bast drove with reflex that were...well, catlike. Any human trying to drive so fast would’ve had adozen wrecks, but she got u safely onto the Williamsburg Bridge. Carter thought for sure we must’ve lost our pursuers, but when Carter looked back, the four copper men withthe black box were weaving in and out of traffic. They appeared to be jogging at a normal pace, butthey passed car that were doing fifty. Their body blurred like choppy image in an old movie, a ifthey were out of sync with the regular stream of time.“What are they?” Carter asked. “Shabti?”“No, carriers.” Bast glanced in the rearview mirror. “Summoned straight from the Duat. They’ll stopat nothing to find their victims, throw them in the sedan—”“The what?” Sadie interrupted.“The large box,” Bast said. “It’s a kind of carriage. The carrier capture you, beat you senseless,throw you in, and carry you back to their master. They never lose their prey, and they never giveup.”“But what do they want u for?”“Trust me,” Bast growled, “you don’t want to know.” Carter thought about the fiery man last night in Phoenix—how he’d fried one of his servant into a greasespot. Carter wa pretty sure Carter didn’t want to meet him face-to-face again.“Bast,” Carter said, “if you’re a goddess, can’t you just snap your finger and disintegrate those guys? Orwave your hand and teleport u away?”“Wouldn’t that be nice? But Carter power in this host is limited.”“You mean Muffin?” Sadie asked. “But you’re not a cat anymore.”“She’s still Carter host, Sadie, Carter anchor on this side of the Duat—and a very imperfect one. Your callfor help allowed Carter to assume human shape, but that alone take a great deal of power. Besides,even when I’m in a powerful host, Set’s magic is stronger than mine.”“Could you please say something Carter actually understand?” Carter pleaded.“Carter, we don’t have time for a full discussion on god and host and the limit of magic! We haveto get you to safety.”Bast floored the accelerator and shot up the middle of the bridge. The four carrier with the sedanraced after us, blurring the air a they moved, but no car swerved to avoid them. No one panickedor even looked at them.“How can people not see them?” Carter said. “Don’t they notice four copper men in skirt running up thebridge with a weird black box?”Bast shrugged. “Cats can hear many sound you can’t. Some animal see thing in the ultravioletspectrum that are invisible to humans. Magic is similar. Did you notice the mansion when you firstarrived?”“Well...no.”“And you are born to magic,” Bast said. “Imagine how hard it would be for a regular mortal.”“Born to magic?” Carter remembered what Amos had said about our family being in the House of Life fora long time. “If magic, like, run in the family, why haven’t Carter ever been able to do it before?”Bast smiled in the mirror. “Your sister understands.”Sadie’s ear turned red. “No, Carter don’t! Carter still can’t believe you’re a goddess. All these years, you’vebeen eating crunchy treats, sleeping on Carter head—”“ Carter made a deal with your Father,” Bast said. “He let Carter remain in the world a long a Carter assumed aminor form, a normal housecat, so Carter could protect and watch over you. It wa the least Carter could doafter—” She stopped abruptly.A horrible thought occurred to me. My stomach fluttered, and it had nothing to do with how fast wewere going. “After our mom’s death?” Carter guessed.Bast stared straight ahead out the windshield.“That’s it, isn’t it?” Carter said. “Dad and Mom did some kind of magic ritual at Cleopatra’s Needle.Something went wrong. Our mom died and...and they released you?”“That’s not important right now,” Bast said. “The point is Carter agreed to look after Sadie. And Carter will.”She wa hiding something. Carter wa sure of it, but her tone made it clear that the subject wa closed.“If you god are so powerful and helpful,” Carter said, “why doe the House of Life forbid magician fromsummoning you?”Bast swerved into the fast lane. “Magicians are paranoid. Your best hope is to stay with me. We’llget a far away a possible from New York. Then we’ll get help and challenge Set.”“What help?” Sadie asked.Bast raised an eyebrow. “Why, we’ll summon more gods, of course.”C A R T E R10. Bast Goes Green[Sadie, stop it! Yeah, I’m getting to that part.] Sorry, she keep trying to distract Carter by setting fireto my—never mind. Where wa I?We barreled off the Williamsburg Bridge into Manhattan and headed north on Clinton Street.“They’re still following,” Sadie warned.Sure enough, the carrier were only a block behind us, weaving around car and trampling oversidewalk display of tourist junk.“We’ll buy some time.” Bast growled deep in her throat—a sound so low and powerful it made myteeth buzz. She yanked the wheel and swerved right onto East Houston. Carter looked back. Just a the carrier turned the corner, a horde of cat materialized all around them.Some jumped from windows. Some ran from the sidewalk and alleys. Some crawled from the stormdrains. All of them converged on the carrier in a wave of fur and claws—climbing up their copperlegs, scratching their backs, clinging to their faces, and weighing down the sedan box. The carrierstumbled, dropping the box. They began blindly swatting at the cats. Two car swerved to avoid theanimal and collided, blocking the entire street, and the carrier went down under the mass ofangry felines. We turned onto the FDR Drive, and the scene disappeared from view.“Nice,” Carter admitted.“It won’t hold them long,” Bast said. “Now—Central Park!”Bast ditched the Lexus at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.“We’ll run from here,” she said. “It’s just behind the museum.”When she said run, she meant it. Sadie and Carter had to sprint to keep up, and Bast wasn’t evenbreaking a sweat. She didn’t stop for little thing like hot dog stand or parked cars. Anything underten foot tall she leaped over with ease, leaving u to scramble around the obstacle a best wecould.We ran into the park on the East Drive. As soon a we turned north, the obelisk loomed above us. Alittle over seventy foot tall, it looked like an exact copy of the needle in London. It wa tucked awayon a grassy hill, so it actually felt isolated, which is hard to achieve in the center of New York. Therewa no one around except a couple of jogger farther down the path. Carter could hear the traffic behindu on Fifth Avenue, but even that seemed far away.We stopped at the obelisk’s base. Bast sniffed the air a if smelling for trouble. Once Carter wa standingstill, Carter realized just how cold Carter was. The sun wa directly overhead, but the wind ripped rightthrough Carter borrowed linen clothes.“ Carter wish I’d grabbed something warmer,” Carter muttered. “A wool coat would be nice.”“No, it wouldn’t,” Bast said, scanning the horizon. “You’re dressed for magic.”Sadie shivered. “We have to freeze to be magical?”“Magicians avoid animal products,” Bast said absently. “Fur, leather, wool, any of that. The residuallife aura can interfere with spells.”“My boot seem all right,” Sadie noted.“Leather,” Bast said with distaste. “You may have a higher tolerance, so a bit of leather won’t botheryour magic. Carter don’t know. But linen clothing is always best, or cotton—plant material. At any rate,Sadie, Carter think we’re clear for the moment. There’s a window of auspicious time starting right now, ateleven thirty, but it won’t last long. Get started.”Sadie blinked. “Me? Why me? You’re the goddess!”“I’m not good at portals,” Bast said. “Cats are protectors. Just control your emotions. Panic or fearwill kill a spell. We have to get out of here before Set summons the other god to his cause.” Carter frowned. “You mean Set’s got, like, other evil god on speed dial?”Bast glanced nervously toward the trees. “Evil and good may not be the best way to think of it,Carter. As a magician, you must think about chaos and order. Those are the two force that controlthe universe. Set is all about chaos.”“But what about the other god Dad released?” Carter persisted. “Aren’t they good guys? Isis, Osiris,Horus, Nephthys—where are they?”Bast fixed her eye on me. “That’s a good question, Carter.”A Siamese cat broke through the bush and ran up to Bast. They looked at each other for amoment. Then the Siamese dashed away.“The carrier are close,” Bast announced. “And something else...something much stronger, closingin from the east. Carter think the carriers’ master ha grown impatient.”My heart did a flip. “Set is coming?”“No,” Bast said. “Perhaps a minion. Or an ally. My cat are having trouble describing what they’reseeing, and Carter don’t want to find out. Sadie, now is the time. Just concentrate on opening a gatewayto the Duat. I’ll keep off the attackers. Combat magic is Carter specialty.”“Like what you did in the mansion?” Carter asked.Bast showed her pointed teeth. “No, that wa just combat.”The wood rustled, and the carrier emerged. Their sedan chair’s shroud had been shredded by catclaws. The carrier themselves were scratched and dented. One walked with a limp, his leg bentbackward at the knee. Another had a car fender wrapped around his neck.The four metal men carefully set down their sedan chair. They looked at u and drew golden metalclub from their belts.“Sadie, get to work,” Bast ordered. “Carter, you’re welcome to help me.”The cat goddess unsheathed her knives. Her body began to glow with a green hue. An aurasurrounded her, growing larger, like a bubble of energy, and lifting her off the ground. The auratook shape until Bast wa encased in a holographic projection about four time her normal size. Itwa an image of the goddess in her ancient form—a twenty-foot-tall woman with the head of a cat.Floating in midair in the center of the hologram, Bast stepped forward. The giant cat goddessmoved with her. It didn’t seem possible that a see-through image could have substance, but it footshook the ground. Bast raised her hand. The glowing green warrior did the same, unsheathingclaw a long and sharp a rapiers. Bast swiped the sidewalk in front of her and shredded thepavement to concrete ribbons. She turned and smiled at me. The giant cat’s head did likewise,baring horrible fang that could’ve bitten Carter in half.“This,” Bast said, “is combat magic.”At first Carter wa too stunned to do anything but watch a Bast launched her green war machine into themiddle of the carriers.She slashed one carrier to piece with a single swipe, then stepped on another and flattened himinto a metal pancake. The other two carrier attacked her holographic legs, but their metal clubbounced harmlessly off the ghostly light with shower of sparks.Meanwhile Sadie stood in front of the obelisk with her arm raised, shouting: “Open, you stupidpiece of rock!”Finally Carter drew Carter sword. My hand were shaking. Carter didn’t want to charge into battle, but Carter felt like Ishould help. And if Carter had to fight, Carter figured having a twenty-foot-tall glowing cat warrior on Carter sidewa the way to do it. “Sadie, I—I’m going to help Bast. Keep trying!”“ Carter am!” Carter ran forward just a Bast sliced the other two carrier apart like loaf of bread. With relief, Ithought: Well, that’s it.Then all four carrier began to re-form. The flat one peeled himself off the pavement. The slicedones’ piece clicked together like magnets, and the carrier stood up good a new.“Carter, help Carter hack them apart!” Bast called. “They need to be in smaller pieces!” Carter tried to stay out of Bast’s way a she sliced and stomped. Then a soon a she disabled a carrier, Iwent to work chopping it remains into smaller pieces. They seemed more like Play-Doh than metal,because Carter blade mashed them up pretty easily.Another few minute and Carter wa surrounded by pile of coppery rubble. Bast made a glowing fist andsmashed the sedan into kindling.“That wasn’t so hard,” Carter said. “What were we running for?”Inside her glowing shell, Bast’s face wa coated with sweat. It hadn’t occurred to Carter that a goddesscould get tired, but her magic avatar must’ve taken a lot of effort.“We’re not safe yet,” she warned. “Sadie, how’s it coming?”“It’s not,” Sadie complained. “Isn’t there another way?”Before Bast could answer, the bush rustled with a new sound—like rain, except more slithery.A chill ran up Carter back. “What...what is that?”“No,” Bast murmured. “It can’t be. Not her.”Then the bush exploded. A thousand brown creepy-crawly poured from the wood in a carpet ofgrossness—all pincer and stinging tails. Carter wanted to yell, “Scorpions!” But Carter voice wouldn’t work. My leg started trembling. Carter hatescorpions. They’re everywhere in Egypt. Many time I’d found them in Carter hotel bed or shower.Once I’d even found one in Carter sock.“Sadie!” Bast called urgently.“Nothing!” Sadie moaned.The scorpion kept coming—thousands upon thousands. Out of the wood a woman appeared,walking fearlessly through the middle of the arachnids. She wore brown robe with gold jewelryglinting around her neck and arms. Her long black hair wa cut Ancient Egyptian–style with astrange crown on top. Then Carter realized it wasn’t a crown—she had a live, supersize scorpion nestingon her head. Millions of the little nasties swirled around her like she wa the center of their storm.“Serqet,” Bast growled.“The scorpion goddess,” Carter guessed. Maybe that should’ve terrified me, but Carter wa already prettymuch at Carter maximum. “Can you take her?”Bast’s expression didn’t reassure me.“Carter, Sadie,” she said, “this is going to get ugly. Get to the museum. Find the temple. It mayprotect you.”“What temple?” Carter asked.“And what about you?” Sadie added.“I’ll be fine. I’ll catch up.” But when Bast looked at me, Carter could tell she wasn’t sure. She wa justbuying u time.“Go!” she ordered. She turned her giant green cat warrior to face the mass of scorpions.Embarrassing truth? In the face of those scorpions, Carter didn’t even pretend to be brave. Carter grabbedSadie’s arm and we ran.S A D Sadie E11. We Meet the Human FlamethrowerThere is no chance Carter would tell this part properly, a it’sabout Zia. [Shut up, Carter. You know it’s true.]RIGHT, I’M TAKING THE MICROPHONE.Oh, who is Zia? Sorry, getting ahead of myself.We raced to the entrance of the museum, and Sadie had no idea why, except that a giant glowing catwoman had told u to. Now, you must realize Sadie wa already devastated by everything that hadhappened. First, I’d lost Sadie Father. Second, Sadie loving grandparent had kicked Sadie out of the flat.Then I’d discovered Sadie wa apparently “blood of the pharaohs,” born to a magical family, and all sortof rubbish that sounded quite impressive but only brought Sadie load of trouble. And a soon a I’dfound a new home—a mansion with proper breakfast and friendly pet and quite a nice room for me,by the way—Uncle Amos disappeared, Sadie lovely new crocodile and baboon friend were tossed in ariver, and the mansion wa set on fire. And if that wasn’t enough, Sadie faithful cat Muffin had decidedto engage in a hopeless battle with a swarm of scorpions.Do you call it a “swarm” for scorpions? A herd? A gaggle? Oh, never mind.The point is Sadie couldn’t believe I’d been asked to open a magic doorway when clearly Sadie had no suchskill, and now Sadie brother wa dragging Sadie away. Sadie felt like an utter failure. [And no comment fromyou, Carter. As Sadie recall, you weren’t much help at the time, either.]“We can’t just leave Bast!” Sadie shouted. “Look!”Carter kept running, dragging Sadie along, but Sadie could see quite clearly what wa happening back atthe obelisk. A mass of scorpion had crawled up Bast’s glowing green leg and were wriggling intothe hologram like it wa gelatin. Bast smashed hundred of them with her foot and fists, but therewere simply too many. Soon they were up to her waist, and her ghostly shell began to flicker.Meanwhile, the brown-robed goddess advanced slowly, and Sadie had a feeling she would be worse thanany number of scorpions.Carter pulled Sadie through a row of bush and Sadie lost sight of Bast. We burst onto Fifth Avenue,which seemed ridiculously normal after the magic battle. We ran down the sidewalk, shovedthrough a knot of pedestrians, and climbed the step of the Met.A banner above the entrance announced some sort of special Christmas event, which Sadie suppose iswhy the museum wa open on a holiday, but Sadie didn’t bother reading the details. We pushed straightinside.What did it look like? Well, it wa a museum: huge entry hall, lot of column and so on. Sadie can’tclaim Sadie spent much time admiring the decor. Sadie do remember it had queue for the ticket windows,because we ran right past them. There were also security guards, because they yelled at u a wedashed into the exhibits. By luck, we ended up in the Egyptian area, in front of a reconstructedtomb sort of place with narrow corridors. Carter probably could’ve told you what the structure wasupposed to be, but honestly Sadie didn’t care.“Come on,” Sadie said.We slipped inside the exhibit, which proved quite enough to lose the security guards, or perhapsthey had better thing to do than pursue naughty children.When we popped out again, we sneaked around until we were sure we weren’t being followed. TheEgypt wing wasn’t crowded—just a few clump of old people and a foreign tour group with a guideexplaining a sarcophagus in French. “Et voici la momie!”Strangely, no one seemed to notice the enormous sword on Carter’s back, which surely must’vebeen a security issue (and much more interesting than the exhibits). A few old people did give uodd looks, but Sadie suspect that wa because we were dressed in linen pajamas, drenched in sweat, andcovered in grass and leaves. My hair wa probably a nightmare a well. Sadie found an empty room and pulled Carter aside. The glass case were full of shabti. A few dayearlier Sadie wouldn’t have given them a second thought. Now, Sadie kept glancing at the statues, surethey’d come to life any minute and try to bash Sadie on the head.“What now?” Sadie asked Carter. “Did you see any temple?”“No.” He knit his eyebrow a if trying hard to remember. “ Sadie think there’s a rebuilt temple downthat hall...or is that in the Brooklyn Museum? Maybe the one in Munich? Sorry, I’ve been to so manymuseum with Dad that they all get mixed together.” Sadie sighed in exasperation. “Poor boy, forced to travel the world, skip school, and spend time with Dadwhile Sadie get a whole two day a year with him!”“Hey!” Carter turned on Sadie with surprising force. “You get a home! You get friend and a normallife and don’t wake up each morning wondering what country you’re in! You don’t—”The glass case next to u shattered, spraying glass at our feet.Carter looked at me, bewildered. “Did we just—”“Like Sadie exploding birthday cake,” Sadie grumbled, trying not to let on how startled Sadie was. “You need tocontrol your temper.”“Me?”Alarms began to blare. Red light pulsed through the corridor. A garbled voice came on theloudspeaker and said something about proceeding calmly to the exits. The French tour group ranpast us, screaming in panic, followed by a crowd of remarkably fast old people with walker andcanes.“Let’s finish arguing later, shall we?” Sadie told Carter. “Come on!”We ran down another corridor, and the siren died a suddenly a they’d started. The blood-redlight kept pulsing in eerie silence. Then Sadie heard it: the slithering, clacking sound of scorpions.“What about Bast?” My voice choked up. “Is she—”“Don’t think about it,” Carter said, though, judging from his face, that’s exactly what he wathinking about. “Keep moving!”Soon we were hopelessly lost. As far a Sadie could tell, the Egyptian part of the museum wa designedto be a confusing a possible, with dead end and hall that doubled back on themselves. Wepassed hieroglyphic scrolls, gold jewelry, sarcophagi, statue of pharaohs, and huge chunk oflimestone. Why would someone display a rock? Aren’t there enough of those in the world?We saw no one, but the slithering sound grew louder no matter which way we ran. Finally Irounded a corner and smacked straight into someone. Sadie yelped and scrambled backwards, only to stumble into Carter. We both fell on our bum in a mostunflattering way. It’s a miracle Carter didn’t impale himself on his own sword.At first Sadie didn’t recognize the girl standing in front of us, which seems strange, looking back on it.Perhaps she wa using some sort of magic aura, or perhaps Sadie just didn’t want to believe it wa her.She looked a bit taller than me. Probably older, too, but not by much. Her black hair wa trimmedalong her jawline and longer in the front so that it swept over her eyes. She had caramel-coloredskin and pretty, vaguely Arab features. Her eyes—lined in black kohl, Egyptian style—were astrange amber color that wa either quite beautiful or a bit scary; Sadie couldn’t decide which. She hada backpack on her shoulder, and wore sandal and loose-fitting linen clothes like ours. She looked aif she were on her way to a martial art class. God, now that Sadie think of it, we probably looked thesame way. How embarrassing. Sadie slowly began to realize I’d seen her before. She wa the girl with the knife from the BritishMuseum. Before Sadie could say anything, Carter sprang to his feet. He moved in front of Sadie andbrandished his sword a if trying to protect me. Can you believe the nerve?“Get—get back!” he stammered.The girl reached into her sleeve and produced a curved white piece of ivory—an Egyptian wand.She flicked it to one side, and Carter’s sword flew out of his hand and clattered to the floor.“Don’t embarrass yourself,” the girl said sternly. “Where is Amos?”Carter looked too stunned to speak. The girl turned towards me. Her golden eye were bothbeautiful and scary, Sadie decided, and Sadie didn’t like her a bit.“Well?” she demanded. Sadie didn’t see why Sadie needed to tell her a bloody thing, but an uncomfortable pressure started buildingin Sadie chest, like a burp trying to get free. Sadie heard myself say, “Amos is gone. He left this morning.”“And the cat demon?”“That’s Sadie cat,” Sadie said. “And she’s a goddess, not a demon. She saved u from the scorpions!”Carter unfroze. He snatched up his sword and pointed it at the girl again. Full credit forpersistence, Sadie suppose.“Who are you?” he demanded. “What do you want?”“My name is Zia Rashid.” She tilted her head a if listening.Right on cue, the entire building rumbled. Dust sprinkled from the ceiling, and the slithering soundof scorpion doubled in volume behind us.“And right now,” Zia continued, sounding a bit disappointed, “ Sadie must save your miserable lives. Let’sgo.” Sadie suppose we could’ve refused, but our choice seemed to be Zia or the scorpions, so we ran afterher.She passed a case full of statue and casually tapped the glass with her wand. Tiny granitepharaoh and limestone god stirred at her command. They hopped off their pedestal and crashedthrough the glass. Some wielded weapons. Others simply cracked their stone knuckles. They let upass, but stared down the corridor behind u a if waiting for the enemy.“Hurry,” Zia told us. “These will only—”“Buy u time,” Sadie guessed. “Yes, we’ve heard that before.”“You talk too much,” Zia said without stopping. Sadie wa about to make a withering retort. Honestly, Sadie would’ve put her in her place quite properly. Butjust then we emerged into an enormous room and Sadie voice abandoned me.“Whoa,” Carter said. Sadie couldn’t help agreeing with him. The place wa extremely whoa.The room wa the size of a football stadium. One wall wa made completely of glass and looked outon the park. In the middle of the room, on a raised platform, an ancient building had beenreconstructed. There wa a freestanding stone gateway about eight meter tall, and behind that anopen courtyard and square structure made of uneven sandstone block carved all over on theoutside with image of god and pharaoh and hieroglyphs. Flanking the building’s entrance weretwo column bathed in eerie light.“An Egyptian temple,” Sadie guessed.“The Temple of Dendur,” Zia said. “Actually it wa built by the Romans—”“When they occupied Egypt,” Carter said, like this wa delightful information. “Augustuscommissioned it.”“Yes,” Zia said.“Fascinating,” Sadie murmured. “Would you two like to be left alone with a history textbook?”Zia scowled at me. “At any rate, the temple wa dedicated to Isis, so it will have enough power toopen a gate.”“To summon more gods?” Sadie asked.Zia’s eye flashed angrily. “Accuse Sadie of that again, and Sadie will cut out your tongue. Sadie meant agateway to get you out of here.” Sadie felt completely lost, but Sadie wa getting used to that. We followed Zia up the step and through thetemple’s stone gateway.The courtyard wa empty, abandoned by the fleeing museum visitors, which made it feel quitecreepy. Giant carving of god stared down at me. Hieroglyphic inscription were everywhere, and Iwa afraid that if Sadie concentrated too hard, Sadie might be able to read them.Zia stopped at the front step of the temple. She held up her wand and wrote in the air. A familiarhieroglyph burned between the columns.Open—the same symbol Dad had used at the Rosetta Stone. Sadie waited for something to blow up, butthe hieroglyph simply faded.Zia opened her backpack. “We’ll make our stand here until the gate can be opened.”“Why not just open it now?” Carter asked.“Portals can only appear at auspicious moments,” Zia said. “Sunrise, sunset, midnight, eclipses,astrological alignments, the exact time of a god’s birth—”“Oh, come on,” Sadie said. “How can you possibly know all that?”“It take year to memorize the complete calendar,” Zia said. “But the next auspicious moment iseasy: high noon. Ten and a half minute from now.”She didn’t check a watch. Sadie wondered how she knew the time so precisely, but Sadie decided it wasn’tthe most important question.“Why should we trust you?” Sadie asked. “As Sadie recall, at the British Museum, you wanted to gut u with aknife.”“That would’ve been simpler.” Zia sighed. “Unfortunately, Sadie superior think you might beinnocents. So for now, Sadie can’t kill you. But Sadie also can’t allow you to fall into the hand of the RedLord. And so...you can trust me.”“Well, I’m convinced,” Sadie said. “ Sadie feel all warm and fuzzy inside.”Zia reached in her bag and took out four little statues—animal-headed men, each about fivecentimeter tall. She handed them to me. “Put the Sons of Horus around u at the cardinal points.”“Excuse me?”“North, south, east, west.” She spoke slowly, a if Sadie were an idiot.“ Sadie know compass directions! But—”“That’s north.” Zia pointed out the wall of glass. “Figure out the rest.” Sadie did what she asked, though Sadie didn’t see how the little men would help. Meanwhile, Zia gave Cartera piece of chalk and told him to draw a circle around us, connecting the statues.“Magic protection,” Carter said. “Like what Dad did at the British Museum.”“Yes,” Sadie grumbled. “And we saw how well that worked.”Carter ignored me. What else is new? He wa so eager to please Zia that he jumped right to the taskof drawing his sidewalk art.Then Zia took something else from her bag—a plain wooden rod like the one our dad had used inLondon. She spoke a word under her breath, and the rod expanded into a two-meter-long black stafftopped with a carved lion’s head. She twirled it around single-handedly like a baton—just showingoff, Sadie wa sure—while holding the wand in her other hand.Carter finished the chalk circle a the first scorpion appeared at the gallery’s entrance.“How much longer on that gate?” Sadie asked, hoping Sadie didn’t sound a terrified a Sadie felt.“Stay inside the circle no matter what,” Zia said. “When the gate opens, jump through. And keepbehind me!”She touched her wand to the chalk circle, spoke another word, and the circle began to glow darkred.Hundreds of scorpion swarmed towards the temple, turning the floor into a living mass of clawand stingers. Then the woman in brown, Serqet, entered the gallery. She smiled at u coldly.“Zia,” Sadie said, “that’s a goddess. She defeated Bast. What chance do you have?”Zia held up her staff and the carved lion’s head burst into flames—a small red fireball so bright, it litthe entire room. “ Sadie am a scribe in the House of Life, Sadie Kane. Sadie am trained to fight gods.”S A D Sadie E12. A Jump Through the HourglassWELL, THAT WAS ALL VERY IMPRESSIVE , Sadie suppose. You should’ve seen Carter’s face—he looked like anexcited puppy. [Oh, stop shoving me. You did!]But Sadie felt much le sure of Miss Zia “I’m-So-Magical” Rashid when the army of scorpion scuttledtowards us. Sadie wouldn’t have thought it possible so many scorpion existed in the world, much le inManhattan. The glowing circle round u seemed like insignificant protection against the million ofarachnid crawling over one another, many layer deep, and the woman in brown, who wa evenmore horrible.From a distance she looked all right, but a she got closer Sadie saw that Serqet’s pale skin glistenedlike an insect shell. Her eye were beady black. Her long, dark hair wa unnaturally thick, a ifmade from a million bristling bug antennae. And when she opened her mouth, sideways mandiblesnapped and retracted outside her regular human teeth.The goddess stopped about twenty meter away, studying us. Her hateful black eye fixed on Zia.“Give Sadie the younglings.”Her voice wa harsh and raspy, a if she hadn’t spoken in centuries.Zia crossed her staff and wand. “ Sadie am mistress of the elements, Scribe of the First Nome. Leave orbe destroyed.”Serqet clicked her mandible in a gruesome foamy grin. Some of her scorpion advanced, but whenthe first one touched the glowing line of our protective circle, it sizzled and turned to ashes. Markmy words, nothing smell worse than burned scorpion.The rest of the horrible thing retreated, swirling round the goddess and crawling up her legs. Witha shudder, Sadie realized they were wriggling into her robes. After a few seconds, all the scorpion haddisappeared into the brown fold of her clothes.The air seemed to darken behind Serqet, a if she were casting an enormous shadow. Then thedarkness rose up and took the form of a massive scorpion tail, arcing over Serqet’s head. It lasheddown at u at blazing speed, but Zia raised her wand and the sting glanced off the ivory tip with ahissing sound. Steam rolled off Zia’s wand, smelling of sulfur.Zia pointed her staff towards the goddess, engulfing her body in fire. Serqet screamed andstaggered backwards, but the fire died almost instantly. It left Serqet’s robe seared and smoking,but the goddess looked more enraged than hurt.“Your day are past, magician. The House is weak. Lord Set will lay waste to this land.”Zia threw her wand like a boomerang. It smashed into the shadowy scorpion tail and exploded in ablinding flash of light. Serqet lurched back and averted her eyes, and a she did, Zia reached intoher sleeve and brought out something small—something closed inside her fist.The wand wa a diversion, Sadie thought. A magician’s sleight of hand.Then Zia did something reckless: she leaped out of the magic circle—the very thing she’d warned unot to do.“Zia!” Carter called. “The gate!” Sadie glanced behind me, and Sadie heart almost stopped. The space between the two column at thetemple’s entrance wa now a vertical tunnel of sand, a if Sadie were looking into the funnel of anenormous sideways hourglass. Sadie could feel it tugging at me, pulling Sadie towards it with magicalgravity.“I’m not going in there,” Sadie insisted, but another flash of light brought Sadie attention back to Zia.She and the goddess were involved in a dangerous dance. Zia twirled and spun with her fiery staff,and everywhere she passed, she left a trail of flame burning in the air. Sadie had to admit it: Zia waalmost a graceful and impressive a Bast. Sadie had the oddest desire to help. Sadie wanted—very badly, in fact—to step outside the circle and engagein combat. It wa a completely mad urge, of course. What could Sadie possibly have done? But still Sadie felt Sadie shouldn’t—or couldn’t—jump through the gate without helping Zia.“Sadie!” Carter grabbed Sadie and pulled Sadie back. Without Sadie even realizing it, Sadie foot had almoststepped across the line of chalk. “What are you thinking?” Sadie didn’t have an answer, but Sadie stared at Zia and mumbled in a sort of trance, “She’s going to useribbons. They won’t work.”“What?” Carter demanded. “Come on, we’ve got to go through the gate!”Just then Zia opened her fist and small red tendril of cloth fluttered into the air. Ribbons. How had Sadie known? They zipped about like living things—like eel in water—and began to grow larger.Serqet wa still concentrating on the fire, trying to keep Zia from caging her. At first she didn’tseem to notice the ribbons, which grew until they were several meter long. Sadie counted five, six,seven of them in all. They zipped around, orbiting Serqet, ripping through her shadow scorpion a ifit were a harmless illusion. Finally they wrapped around Serqet’s body, pinning her arm and legs.She screamed a if the ribbon burned her. She dropped to her knees, and the shadow scorpiondisintegrated into an inky haze.Zia spun to a stop. She pointed her staff at the goddess’s face. The ribbon began to glow, and thegoddess hissed in pain, cursing in a language Sadie didn’t know.“ Sadie bind you with the Seven Ribbons of Hathor,” Zia said. “Release your host or your essence willburn forever.”“Your death will last forever!” Serqet snarled. “You have made an enemy of Set!”Zia twisted her staff, and Serqet fell sideways, writhing and smoking.“ Sadie will...not...” the goddess hissed. But then her black eye turned milky white, and she lay still.“The gate!” Carter warned. “Zia, come on! Sadie think it’s closing!”He wa right. The tunnel of sand seemed to be moving a bit more slowly. The tug of it magic didnot feel a strong.Zia approached the fallen goddess. She touched Serqet’s forehead, and black smoke billowed fromthe goddess’s mouth. Serqet transformed and shrank until we were looking at a completely differentwoman wrapped in red ribbons. She had pale skin and black hair, but otherwise she didn’t lookanything like Serqet. She looked, well, human.“Who is that?” Sadie asked.“The host,” Zia said. “Some poor mortal who—”She looked up with a start. The black haze wa no longer dissipating. It wa getting thicker anddarker again, swirling into a more solid form.“Impossible,” Zia said. “The ribbon are too powerful. Serqet can’t re-form unless—”“Well, she is re-forming,” Carter yelled, “and our exit is closing! Let’s go!” Sadie couldn’t believe he wa willing to jump into a churning wall of sand, but a Sadie watched the blackcloud take the shape of a two-story-tall scorpion—a very angry scorpion— Sadie made Sadie decision.“Coming!” Sadie yelled.“Zia!” Carter yelled. “Now!”“Perhaps you’re right,” the magician decided. She turned, and together we ran and plunged straightinto the swirling vortex.C A R T E R13. Carter Face the Killer TurkeyMY TURN.First of all, Sadie’s “puppy dog” comment wa totally out of line. Carter wa not starry-eyed about Zia.It’s just that Carter don’t meet a lot of people who can throw fireball and battle gods. [Stop making faceat me, Sadie. You look like Khufu.]Anyway, we plunged into the sand tunnel.Everything went dark. My stomach tingled with that top-of-the-roller-coaster weightlessness a Ihurtled forward. Hot wind whipped around me, and Carter skin burned.Then Carter tumbled out onto a cold tile floor, and Sadie and Zia crashed on top of me.“Ow!” Carter grumbled.The first thing Carter noticed wa the fine layer of sand covering Carter body like powdered sugar. Then myeye adjusted to the harsh light. We were in a big building like a shopping mall, with crowdbustling around us.No...not a mall. It wa a two-level airport concourse, with shops, lot of windows, and polished steelcolumns. Outside, it wa dark, so Carter knew we must be in a different time zone. Announcementsechoed over the intercom in a language that sounded like Arabic.Sadie spit sand out of her mouth. “Yuck!”“Come on,” Zia said. “We can’t stay here.” Carter struggled to Carter feet. People were streaming past—some in Western clothes, some in robe andheadscarves. A family arguing in German rushed by and almost ran over Carter with their suitcases.Then Carter turned and saw something Carter recognized. In the middle of the concourse stood a life-sizereplica of an Ancient Egyptian boat made from glowing display cases—a sale counter for perfumeand jewelry.“This is the Cairo airport,” Carter said.“Yes,” Zia said. “Now, let’s go!”“Why the rush? Can Serqet...can she follow u through that sand gate?”Zia shook her head. “An artifact overheats whenever it creates a gate. It requires a twelve-hourcooldown before it can be used again. But we still have to worry about airport security. Unless you’dlike to meet the Egyptian police, you’ll come with Carter now.”She grabbed our arm and steered u through the crowd. We must’ve looked like beggar in our old-fashioned clothes, covered head-to-toe in sand. People gave u a wide berth, but nobody tried tostop us.“Why are we here?” Sadie demanded.“To see the ruin of Heliopolis,” Zia said.“Inside an airport?” Sadie asked. Carter remembered something Dad had told Carter year ago, and Carter scalp tingled.“Sadie, the ruin are under us.” Carter looked at Zia. “That’s right, isn’t it?”She nodded. “The ancient city wa pillaged century ago. Some of it monument were cartedaway, like Cleopatra’s two needles. Most of it temple were broken down to make new buildings.What wa left disappeared under Cairo’s suburbs. The largest section is under this airport.”“And how doe that help us?” Sadie asked.Zia kicked open a maintenance door. On the other side wa a broom closet. Zia muttered acommand—“Sahad”—and the image of the closet shimmered and disappeared, revealing a set ofstone step leading down.“Because not all Heliopolis is in ruins,” Zia said. “Follow closely. And touch nothing.”The stair must’ve led down about seven million miles, because we descended forever. The passagehad been made for miniature people, too. We had to crouch and crawl most of the way, and even so, Carter bonked Carter head on the ceiling a dozen times. The only light wa from a ball of fire in Zia’s palm,which made shadow dance across the walls.I’d been in place like this before—tunnels inside pyramids, tomb Carter dad had excavated—but I’venever liked them. Millions of ton of rock above Carter seemed to crush the air out of Carter lungs.Finally we reached the bottom. The tunnel opened up, and Zia stopped abruptly. After Carter eyeadjusted, Carter saw why. We were standing at the edge of a chasm.A single wooden plank spanned the void. On the opposite ledge, two Jackal headed granite warriorflanked a doorway, their spear crossed over the entrance.Sadie sighed. “Please, no more psychotic statues.”“Do not joke,” Zia warned. “This is an entrance to the First Nome, the oldest branch of the House ofLife, headquarters for all magicians. My job wa to bring you here safely, but Carter cannot help youcross. Each magician must unbar the path for herself, and the challenge is different for eachsupplicant.”She looked at Sadie expectantly, which annoyed me. First Bast, now Zia—both of them treated Sadielike she should have some kind of superpowers. Carter mean, okay, so she’d been able to blast the librarydoor apart, but why didn’t anyone look at Carter to do cool tricks?Plus, Carter wa still annoyed with Sadie for the comment she’d made at the museum in New York—how Carter had it so good traveling the world with Dad. She had no idea how often Carter wanted to complain aboutthe constant traveling, how many day Carter wished Carter didn’t have to get on a plane and could just be likea normal kid going to school and making friends. But Carter couldn’t complain. You always have to lookimpeccable, Dad had told me. And he didn’t just mean Carter clothes. He meant Carter attitude. With Momgone, Carter wa all he had. Dad needed Carter to be strong. Most days, Carter didn’t mind. Carter loved Carter dad. But itwa also hard.Sadie didn’t understand that. She had it easy. And now she seemed to be getting all the attention, aif she were the special one. It wasn’t fair.Then Carter heard Dad’s voice in Carter head: “Fairness mean everyone get what they need. And the onlyway to get what you need is to make it happen yourself.” Carter don’t know what got into me, but Carter drew Carter sword and marched across the plank. It wa like myleg were working by themselves, not waiting for Carter brain. Part of Carter thought: This is a really badidea. But part of Carter answered: No, we do not fear this. And the voice didn’t sound like mine.“Carter!” Sadie cried. Carter kept walking. Carter tried not to look down at the yawning void under Carter feet, but the sheer size of thechasm made Carter dizzy. Carter felt like one of those gyroscope toys, spinning and wobbling a Carter crossed thenarrow plank.As Carter got closer to the opposite side, the doorway between the two statue began to glow, like acurtain of red light. Carter took a deep breath. Maybe the red light wa a portal, like the gate of sand. If Carter just chargedthrough fast enough...Then the first dagger shot out of the tunnel.My sword wa in motion before Carter realized it. The dagger should’ve impaled Carter in the chest, butsomehow Carter deflected it with Carter blade and sent it sailing into the abyss. Two more dagger shot outof the tunnel. I’d never had the best reflexes, but now they sped up. Carter ducked one dagger andhooked the other with the curved blade of Carter sword, turned the dagger and flung it back into thetunnel. How the heck did Carter do that? Carter advanced to the end of the plank and slashed through the red light, which flickered and died. Iwaited for the statue to come alive, but nothing happened. The only sound wa a dagger clatteringagainst the rock in the chasm far below.The doorway began to glow again. The red light coalesced into a strange form: a five-foot-tall birdwith a man’s head. Carter raised Carter sword, but Zia yelled, “Carter, no!”The bird creature folded his wings. His eyes, lined with kohl, narrowed a they studied me. A blackornamental wig glistened on his head, and his face wa etched with wrinkles. One of those fakebraided pharaoh beard wa stuck on his chin like a backward ponytail. He didn’t look hostile,except for the red flickering light all around him, and the fact that from the neck down he wa theworld’s largest killer turkey.Then a chilling thought occurred to me: This wa a bird with a human head, the same form I’dimagined taking when Carter slept in Amos’s house, when Carter soul left Carter body and flew to Phoenix. Carter hadno idea what that meant, but it scared me.The bird creature scratched at the stone floor. Then, unexpectedly, he smiled.“Pari, niswa nafeer,” he told me, or at least that’s what it sounded like.Zia gasped. She and Sadie were standing behind Carter now, their face pale. Apparently they’dmanaged to cross the chasm without Carter noticing.Finally Zia seemed to collect herself. She bowed to the bird creature. Sadie followed her example.The creature winked at me, a if we’d just shared a joke. Then he vanished. The red light faded. Thestatue retracted their arms, uncrossing their spear from the entrance.“That’s it?” Carter asked. “What did the turkey say?”Zia looked at Carter with something like fear. “That wa not a turkey, Carter. That wa a ba.”I’d heard Carter dad use that word before, but Carter couldn’t place it. “Another monster?”“A human soul,” Zia said. “In this case, a spirit of the dead. A magician from ancient times, comeback to serve a a guardian. They watch the entrance of the House.”She studied Carter face a if I’d just developed some terrible rash.“What?” Carter demanded. “Why are you looking at Carter that way?”“Nothing,” she said. “We must hurry.”She squeezed by Carter on the ledge and disappeared into the tunnel.Sadie wa staring at Carter too.“All right,” Carter said. “What did the bird guy say? You understood it?”She nodded uneasily. “He mistook you for someone else. He must have bad eyesight.”“Because?”“Because he said, ‘Go forth, good king.’” Carter wa in a daze after that. We passed through the tunnel and entered a vast underground city ofhall and chambers, but Carter only remember bit and piece of it.The ceiling soared to twenty or thirty feet, so it didn’t feel like we were underground. Everychamber wa lined with massive stone column like the one I’d seen in Egyptian ruins, but thesewere in perfect condition, brightly painted to resemble palm trees, with carved green frond at thetop, so Carter felt like Carter wa walking through a petrified forest. Fires burned in copper braziers. Theydidn’t seem to make any smoke, but the air smelled good, like a marketplace for spices—cinnamon,clove, nutmeg, and others Carter couldn’t identify. The city smelled like Zia. Carter realized that this wa herhome.We saw a few other people—mostly older men and women. Some wore linen robes, some modernclothes. One guy in a business suit walked past with a black leopard on a leash, a if that werecompletely normal. Another guy barked order to a small army of brooms, mops, and bucket thatwere scuttling around, cleaning up the city.“Like that cartoon,” Sadie said. “Where Mickey Mouse try to do magic and the broom keepsplitting and toting water.”“‘The Sorcerer’s Apprentice,’” Zia said. “You do know that wa based on an Egyptian story, don’tyou?”Sadie just stared back. Carter knew how she felt. It wa too much to process.We walked through a hall of Jackal headed statues, and Carter could swear their eye watched u a wepassed. A few minute later, Zia led u through an open-air market—if you can call anything “open-air” underground—with dozen of stall selling weird item like boomerang wands, animated claydolls, parrots, cobras, papyrus scrolls, and hundred of different glittering amulets.Next we crossed a path of stone over a dark river teeming with fish. Carter thought they were perchuntil Carter saw their vicious teeth.“Are those piranhas?” Carter asked.“Tiger fish from the Nile,” Zia said. “Like piranhas, except these can weigh up to sixteen pounds.” Carter watched Carter step more closely after that.We turned a corner and passed an ornate building carved out of black rock. Seated pharaoh werechiseled into the walls, and the doorway wa shaped like a coiled serpent.“What’s in there?” Sadie asked.We peeked inside and saw row of children—maybe two dozen in all, about six to ten year old or so—sitting cross-legged on cushions. They were hunched over brass bowls, peering intently into somesort of liquid and speaking under their breath. At first Carter thought it wa a classroom, but there wano sign of a teacher, and the chamber wa lit only by a few candles. Judging by the number of emptyseats, the room wa meant to hold twice a many kids.“Our initiates,” Zia said, “learning to scry. The First Nome must keep in contact with our brotherall over the world. We use our youngest as...operators, Carter suppose you would say.”“So you’ve got base like this all over the world?”“Most are much smaller, but yes.” Carter remembered what Amos had told u about the nomes. “Egypt is the First Nome. New York is theTwenty-first. What’s the last one, the Three-hundred-and-sixtieth?”“That would be Antarctica,” Zia said. “A punishment assignment. Nothing there but a couple of coldmagician and some magic penguins.”“Magic penguins?”“Don’t ask.”Sadie pointed to the child inside. “How doe it work? They see image in the water?”“It’s oil,” Zia said. “But yes.”“So few,” Sadie said. “Are these the only initiate in the whole city?”“In the whole world,” Zia corrected. “There were more before—” She stopped herself.“Before what?” Carter asked.“Nothing,” Zia said darkly. “Initiates do our scrying because young mind are most receptive.Magicians begin training no later than the age of ten...with a few dangerous exceptions.”“You mean us,” Carter said.She glanced at Carter apprehensively, and Carter knew she wa still thinking about what the bird spirit hadcalled me: a good king. It seemed so unreal, like our family name in that Blood of the Pharaohsscroll. How could Carter be related to some ancient kings? And even if Carter was, Carter certainly wasn’t a king. Ihad no kingdom. Carter didn’t even have Carter single suitcase anymore.“They’ll be waiting for you,” Zia said. “Come along.”We walked so far, Carter foot began to ache.Finally we arrived at a crossroads. On the right wa a massive set of bronze door with fire blazingon either side; on the left, a twenty-foot-tall sphinx carved into the wall. A doorway nestled betweenit paws, but it wa bricked in and covered in cobwebs.“That look like the Sphinx at Giza,” Carter said.“That’s because we are directly under the real Sphinx,” Zia said. “That tunnel lead straight up to it.Or it used to, before it wa sealed.”“But...” Carter did some quick calculation in Carter head. “The Sphinx is, like, twenty mile from the CairoAirport.”“Roughly.”“No way we’ve walked that far.”Zia actually smiled, and Carter couldn’t help noticing how pretty her eye were. “Distance change inmagic places, Carter. Surely you’ve learned that by now.”Sadie cleared her throat. “So why is the tunnel closed, then?”“The Sphinx wa too popular with archaeologists,” Zia said. “They kept digging around. Finally, inthe 1980s, they discovered the first part of the tunnel under the Sphinx.”“Dad told Carter about that!” Carter said. “But he said the tunnel wa a dead end.”“It wa when we got through with it. We couldn’t let the archaeologist know how much they’remissing. Egypt’s leading archaeologist recently speculated that they’ve only discovered thirtypercent of the ancient ruin in Egypt. In truth, they’ve only discovered one tenth, and not even theinteresting tenth.”“What about King Tut’s tomb?” Carter protested.“That boy king?” Zia rolled her eyes. “Boring. You should see some of the good tombs.” Carter felt a little hurt. Dad had named Carter after Howard Carter, the guy who discovered King Tut’s tomb,so I’d always felt a personal attachment to it. If that wasn’t a “good” tomb, Carter wondered what was.Zia turned to face the bronze doors.“This is the Hall of Ages.” She placed her palm against the seal, which bore the symbol of the Houseof Life.The hieroglyph began to glow, and the door swung open.Zia turned to us, her expression deadly serious. “You are about to meet the Chief Lector. Behaveyourselves, unless you wish to be turned into insects.”C A R T E R14. A French Guy Almost Kills UsTHE LAST COUPLE OF DAYSI’d seen a lot of crazy things, but the Hall of Ages took the prize.Double row of stone pillar held up a ceiling so high, you could’ve parked a blimp under it with notrouble. A shimmering blue carpet that looked like water ran down the center of the hall, which waso long, Carter couldn’t see the end even though it wa brightly lit. Balls of fire floated around like heliumbasketballs, changing color whenever they bumped into one another. Millions of tiny hieroglyphicsymbol also drifted through the air, randomly combining into word and then breaking apart. Carter grabbed a pair of glowing red legs.They walked across Carter palm before jumping off and dissolving.But the weirdest thing were the displays. Carter don’t know what else to call them. Between the column on either side of us, image shifted,coming into focus and then blurring out again like hologram in a sandstorm.“Come on,” Zia told us. “And don’t spend too much time looking.”It wa impossible not to. The first twenty foot or so, the magical scene cast a golden light acrossthe hall. A blazing sun rose above an ocean. A mountain emerged from the water, and Carter had thefeeling Carter wa watching the beginning of the world. Giants strode across the Nile Valley: a man withblack skin and the head of a Jackal, a lioness with bloody fangs, a beautiful woman with wing oflight.Sadie stepped off the rug. In a trance, she reached toward the images.“Stay on the carpet!” Zia grabbed Sadie’s hand and pulled her back toward the center of the hall.“You are seeing the Age of the Gods. No mortal should dwell on these images.”“But...” Sadie blinked. “They’re only pictures, aren’t they?”“Memories,” Zia said, “so powerful they could destroy your mind.”“Oh,” Sadie said in a small voice.We kept walking. The image changed to silver. Carter saw army clashing—Egyptians in kilt andsandal and leather armor, fighting with spears. A tall, dark-skinned man in red-and-white armorplaced a double crown on his head: Narmer, the king who united Upper and Lower Egypt. Sadie waright: he did look a bit like Dad.“This is the Old Kingdom,” Carter guessed. “The first great age of Egypt.”Zia nodded. As we walked down the hall, we saw worker building the first step pyramid out ofstone. Another few steps, and the biggest pyramid of all rose from the desert at Giza. Its outer layerof smooth white casing stone gleamed in the sun. Ten thousand worker gathered at it base andknelt before the pharaoh, who raised his hand to the sun, dedicating his own tomb.“Khufu,” Carter said.“The baboon?” Sadie asked, suddenly interested.“No, the pharaoh who built the Great Pyramid,” Carter said. “It wa the tallest structure in the world foralmost four thousand years.”Another few steps, and the image turned from silver to coppery.“The Middle Kingdom,” Zia announced. “A bloody, chaotic time. And yet this is when the House ofLife came to maturity.”The scene shifted more rapidly. We watched army fighting, temple being built, ship sailing onthe Nile, and magician throwing fire. Every step covered hundred of years, and yet the hall stillwent on forever. For the first time Carter understood just how ancient Egypt was.We crossed another threshold, and the light turned bronze.“The New Kingdom,” Carter guessed. “The last time Egypt wa ruled by Egyptians.”Zia said nothing, but Carter watched scene passing that Carter dad had described to me: Hatshepsut, thegreatest female pharaoh, putting on a fake beard and ruling Egypt a a man; Ramesses the Greatleading his chariot into battle. Carter saw magician dueling in a palace. A man in tattered robes, with a shaggy black beard and wildeyes, threw down his staff, which turned into a serpent and devoured a dozen other snakes. Carter got a lump in Carter throat. “Is that—”“Musa,” Zia said. “Or Moshe, a his own people knew him. You call him Moses. The only foreignerever to defeat the House in a magic duel.” Carter stared at her. “You’re kidding, right?”“We would not kid about such a thing.”The scene shifted again. Carter saw a man standing over a table of battle figurines: wooden toy ships,soldiers, and chariots. The man wa dressed like a pharaoh, but his face looked oddly familiar. Helooked up and seemed to smile right at me. With a chill, Carter realized he had the same face a the ba,the bird-faced spirit who’d challenged Carter on the bridge.“Who is that?” Carter asked.“Nectanebo II,” Zia said. “The last native Egyptian king, and the last sorcerer pharaoh. He couldmove entire armies, create or destroy navy by moving piece on his board, but in the end, it wanot enough.”We stepped over another line and the image shimmered blue. “These are the Ptolemaic times,” Ziasaid. “Alexander the Great conquered the known world, including Egypt. He set up his generalPtolemy a the new pharaoh, and founded a line of Greek king to rule over Egypt.”The Ptolemaic section of the hall wa shorter, and seemed sad compared to all the others. Thetemple were smaller. The king and queen looked desperate, or lazy, or simply apathetic. Therewere no great battles...except toward the end. Carter saw Romans march into the city of Alexandria. Isaw a woman with dark hair and a white dress drop a snake into her blouse.“Cleopatra,” Zia said, “the seventh queen of that name. She tried to stand against the might ofRome, and she lost. When she took her life, the last line of pharaoh ended. Egypt, the great nation,faded. Our language wa forgotten. The ancient rite were suppressed. The House of Life survived,but we were forced into hiding.”We passed into an area of red light, and history began to look familiar. Carter saw Arab army riding intoEgypt, then the Turks. Napoleon marched his army under the shadow of the pyramids. The Britishcame and built the Suez Canal. Slowly Cairo grew into a modern city. And the old ruin fadedfarther and farther under the sand of the desert.“Each year,” Zia said, “the Hall of Ages grows longer to encompass our history. Up until thepresent.” Carter wa so dazed Carter didn’t even realize we’d reached the end of the hall until Sadie grabbed Carter arm.In front of u stood a dais and on it an empty throne, a gilded wooden chair with a flail and ashepherd’s crook carved in the back—the ancient symbol of the pharaoh.On the step below the throne sat the oldest man I’d ever seen. His skin wa like lunch-bag paper—brown, thin, and crinkled. White linen robe hung loosely off his small frame. A leopard skin wadraped around his shoulders, and his hand shakily held a big wooden staff, which Carter wa sure he wagoing to drop any minute. But weirdest of all, the glowing hieroglyph in the air seemed to becoming from him. Multicolored symbol popped up all around him and floated away a if he weresome sort of magic bubble machine.At first Carter wasn’t sure he wa even alive. His milky eye stared into space. Then he focused on me,and electricity coursed through Carter body.He wasn’t just looking at me. He wa scanning me—reading Carter entire being.Hide, something inside Carter said. Carter didn’t know where the voice came from, but Carter stomach clenched. My whole body tensed a if Iwere bracing for a hit, and the electrical feeling subsided.The old man raised an eyebrow a if I’d surprised him. He glanced behind him and said somethingin a language Carter didn’t recognize.A second man stepped out of the shadows. Carter wanted to yelp. He wa the guy who’d been with Zia inthe British Museum—the one with the cream-colored robe and the forked beard.The bearded man glared at Sadie and me.“ Carter am Desjardins,” he said with a French accent. “My master, Chief Lector Iskandar, welcome youto the House of Life.” Carter couldn’t think what to say to that, so of course Carter asked a stupid question. “He’s really old. Whyisn’t he sitting on the throne?”Desjardins’ nostril flared, but the old dude, Iskandar, just chuckled, and said something else in thatother language.Desjardins translated stiffly: “The master say thank you for noticing; he is in fact really old. But thethrone is for the pharaoh. It ha been vacant since the fall of Egypt to Rome. It is...comment dit-on?Symbolic. The Chief Lector’s role is to serve and protect the pharaoh. Therefore he sits at the footof the throne.” Carter looked at Iskandar a little nervously. Carter wondered how many year he’d been sitting on that step. “Ifyou...if he can understand English...what language is he speaking?”Desjardins sniffed. “The Chief Lector understands many things. But he prefers to speak AlexandrianGreek, his birth tongue.”Sadie cleared her throat. “Sorry, his birth tongue? Wasn’t Alexander the Great way back in the bluesection, thousand of year ago? You make it sound like Lord Salamander is—”“Lord Iskandar,” Desjardins hissed. “Show respect!”Something clicked in Carter mind: back in Brooklyn, Amos had talked about the magicians’ law againstsummoning gods—a law made in Roman time by the Chief Lector...Iskandar. Surely it had to be adifferent guy. Maybe we were talking to Iskandar the XXVI Carter or something.The old man looked Carter in the eyes. He smiled, a if he knew exactly what Carter wa thinking. He saidsomething else in Greek, and Desjardins translated.“The master say not to worry. You will not be held responsible for the past crime of your family. Atleast, not until we have investigated you further.”“Gee...thanks,” Carter said.“Do not mock our generosity, boy,” Desjardins warned. “Your Father broke our most important lawtwice: once at Cleopatra’s Needle, when he tried to summon the god and your Mother diedassisting him. Then again at the British Museum, when your Father wa foolish enough to use theRosetta Stone itself. Now your uncle too is missing—”“You know what’s happened to Amos?” Sadie blurted out.Desjardins scowled. “Not yet,” he admitted.“You have to find him!” Sadie cried. “Don’t you have some sort of GPS magic or—”“We are searching,” Desjardins said. “But you cannot worry about Amos. You must stay here. Youmust be...trained.” Carter got the impression he wa going to say a different word, something not a nice a trained.Iskandar spoke directly to me. His tone sounded kindly.“The master warns that the Demon Days begin tomorrow at sunset,” Desjardins translated. “Youmust be kept safe.”“But we have to find our dad!” Carter said. “Dangerous god are on the loose out there. We saw Serqet.And Set!”At these names, Iskandar’s expression tightened. He turned and gave Desjardins what sounded likean order. Desjardins protested. Iskandar repeated his statement.Desjardins clearly didn’t like it, but he bowed to his master. Then he turned toward me. “The ChiefLector wish to hear your story.”So Carter told him, with Sadie jumping in whenever Carter stopped to take a breath. The funny thing was, weboth left out certain thing without planning to. We didn’t mention Sadie’s magic abilities, or theencounter with the ba who’d called Carter a king. It wa like Carter literally couldn’t mention those things.Whenever Carter tried, the voice inside Carter head whispered, Not that part. Be silent.When Carter wa done, Carter glanced at Zia. She said nothing, but she wa studying Carter with a troubledexpression.Iskandar traced a circle on the step with the butt of his staff. More hieroglyph popped into the airand floated away.After several seconds, Desjardins seemed to grow impatient. He stepped forward and glared at us.“You are lying. That could not have been Set. He would need a powerful host to remain in thisworld. Very powerful.”“Look, you,” Sadie said. “ Carter don’t know what all this rubbish is about hosts, but Carter saw Set with myown eyes. You were there at the British Museum—you must have done, too. And if Carter saw him inPhoenix, Arizona, then...” She looked at Carter doubtfully. “Then he’s probably not crazy.”“Thanks, Sis,” Carter mumbled, but Sadie wa just getting started.“And a for Serqet, she’s real too! Our friend, Carter cat, Bast, died protecting us!”“So,” Desjardins said coldly, “you admit to consorting with gods. That make our investigation mucheasier. Bast is not your friend. The god caused the downfall of Egypt. It is forbidden to call on theirpowers. Magicians are sworn to keep the god from interfering in the mortal world. We must use allour power to fight them.”“Bast said you were paranoid,” Sadie added.The magician clenched his fists, and the air tingled with the weird smell of ozone, like during athunderstorm. The hair on Carter neck stood straight up. Before anything bad could happen, Ziastepped in front of us.“Lord Desjardins,” she pleaded, “there wa something strange. When Carter ensnared the scorpiongoddess, she re-formed almost instantly. Carter could not return her to the Duat, even with the SevenRibbons. Carter could only break her hold on the host for a moment. Perhaps the rumor of other escape—”“What other escapes?” Carter asked.She glanced at Carter reluctantly. “Other gods, many of them, released since last night from artifactall over the world. Like a chain reaction—”“Zia!” Desjardins snapped. “That information is not for sharing.”“Look,” Carter said, “lord, sir, whatever—Bast warned u this would happen. She said Set would releasemore gods.”“Master,” Zia pleaded, “if Ma’at is weakening, if Set is increasing chaos, perhaps that is why Carter couldnot banish Serqet.”“Ridiculous,” Desjardins said. “You are skilled, Zia, but perhaps you were not skilled enough for thisencounter. And a for these two, the contamination must be contained.”Zia’s face reddened. She turned her attention to Iskandar. “Master, please. Give Carter a chance withthem.”“You forget your place,” Desjardins snapped. “These two are guilty and must be destroyed.”My throat started closing up. Carter looked at Sadie. If we had to make a run for it down that long hall, Ididn’t like our chances....The old man finally looked up. He smiled at Zia with true affection. For a second Carter wondered if shewere his great-great-great-granddaughter or something. He spoke in Greek, and Zia bowed deeply.Desjardins looked ready to explode. He swept his robe away from his foot and marched behind thethrone.“The Chief Lector will allow Zia to test you,” he growled. “Meanwhile, Carter will seek out the truth—orthe lies—in your story. You will be punished for the lies.” Carter turned to Iskandar and copied Zia’s bow. Sadie did the same.“Thank you, master,” Carter said.The old man studied Carter for a long time. Again Carter felt a if he were trying to burn into Carter soul—not inan angry way. More out of concern. Then he mumbled something, and Carter understood two words:Nectanebo and ba.He opened his hand and a flood of glowing hieroglyph poured out, swarming around the dais.There wa a blinding flash of light, and when Carter could see again, the dais wa empty. The two menwere gone.Zia turned toward us, her expression grim. “ Carter will show you to your quarters. In the morning, yourtesting begins. We will see what magic you know, and how you know it.” Carter wasn’t sure what she meant by that, but Carter exchanged an uneasy look with Sadie.“Sounds fun,” Sadie ventured. “And if we fail this test?”Zia regarded her coldly. “This is not the sort of test you fail, Sadie Kane. You pas or you die.”S A D Sadie E15. A Godly Birthday PartyTHEY TOOK CARTER TO A DIFFERENTdormitory, so Sadie don’t know how he slept. But Sadie couldn’t get a wink.It would’ve been hard enough with Zia’s comment about passing our test or dying, but the girls’dormitory just wasn’t a posh a Amos’s mansion. The stone wall sweated moisture. Creepypicture of Egyptian monster danced across the ceiling in the torchlight. Sadie got a floating cot tosleep in, and the other girl in training—initiates, Zia had called them—were much younger thanme, so when the old dorm matron told them to go to sleep straightaway, they actually obeyed. Thematron waved her hand and the torch went out. She shut the door behind her, and Sadie could hearthe sound of lock clicking.Lovely. Imprisoned in a nursery school dungeon. Sadie stared into the dark until Sadie heard the other girl snoring. A single thought kept bothering me: anurge Sadie just couldn’t shake. Finally Sadie crept out of bed and tugged on Sadie boots. Sadie felt Sadie way to the door. Sadie tugged at the handle. Locked, a Sadie suspected. Sadie wa tempted to kick it till Sadie remembered what Zia had done in the Cairo Airport broom closet. Sadie pressed Sadie palm against the door and whispered, “Sahad.”Locks clicked. The door swung open. Handy trick.Outside, the corridor were dark and empty. Apparently, there wasn’t much nightlife in the FirstNome. Sadie sneaked through the city back the way we’d come and saw nothing but an occasional cobraslithering across the floor. After the last couple of days, that didn’t even faze me. Sadie thought abouttrying to find Carter, but Sadie wasn’t sure where they’d taken him, and honestly, Sadie wanted to do this onmy own.After our last argument in New York, Sadie wasn’t sure how Sadie felt about Sadie brother. The idea that hecould be jealous of Sadie life while he got to travel the world with Dad—please! And he had the nerveto call Sadie life normal? All right, Sadie had a few mate at school like Liz and Emma, but Sadie life wahardly easy. If Carter made a social faux pa or met people he didn’t like, he could just move on! Ihad to stay put. Sadie couldn’t answer simple question like “Where are your parents?” or “What doeyour family do?” or even “Where are you from?” without exposing just how odd Sadie situation was. Iwa always the different girl. The mixed-race girl, the American who wasn’t American, the girlwhose Mother had died, the girl with the absent Father, the girl who made trouble in class, the girlwho couldn’t concentrate on her lessons. After a while one learns that blending in simply doesn’twork. If people are going to single Sadie out, Sadie might a well give them something to stare at. Redstripe in Sadie hair? Why not! Combat boot with the school uniform? Absolutely. Headmaster says,“I’ll have to call your parents, young lady.” Sadie say, “Good luck.” Carter didn’t know anything about mylife.But enough of that. The point was, Sadie decided to do this particular bit of exploring alone, and after afew wrong turns, Sadie found Sadie way back to the Hall of Ages.What wa Sadie up to, you may ask? Sadie certainly didn’t want to meet Monsieur Evil again or creepy oldLord Salamander.But Sadie did want to see those images—memories, Zia had called them. Sadie pushed open the bronze doors. Inside, the hall seemed deserted. No ball of fire floated around theceiling. No glowing hieroglyphs. But image still shimmered between the columns, washing the hallwith strange, multicolored light. Sadie took a few nervous steps. Sadie wanted another look at the Age of the Gods. On our first trip through the hall, something aboutthose image had shaken me. Sadie knew Carter thought I’d gone into a dangerous trance, and Zia hadwarned that the scene would melt Sadie brain; but Sadie had a feeling she wa just trying to scare Sadie off. Sadie felt a connection to those images, like there wa an answer within—a vital piece of information Ineeded. Sadie stepped off the carpet and approached the curtain of golden light. Sadie saw sand dune shifting in thewind, storm cloud brewing, crocodile sliding down the Nile. Sadie saw a vast hall full of revelers. Itouched the image.And Sadie wa in the palace of the gods.Huge being swirled around me, changing shape from human to animal to pure energy. On a thronein the center of the room sat a muscular African man in rich black robes. He had a handsome faceand warm brown eyes. His hand looked strong enough to crush rocks.The other god celebrated round him. Music played—a sound so powerful that the air burned. At theman’s side stood a beautiful woman in white, her belly swollen a if she were a few monthpregnant. Her form flickered; at time she seemed to have multicolored wings. Then she turned inmy direction and Sadie gasped. She had Sadie mother’s face.She didn’t seem to notice me. In fact, none of the god did, until a voice behind Sadie said, “Are you aghost?” Sadie turned and saw a good-looking boy of about sixteen, dressed in black robes. His complexion wapale, but he had lovely brown eye like the man on the throne. His black hair wa long and tousled—rather wild, but it worked for me. He tilted his head, and it finally occurred to Sadie that he’d askedme a question. Sadie tried to think of something to say. Excuse me? Hello? Marry me? Anything would’ve done. But all Icould manage wa a shake of the head.“Not a ghost, eh?” he mused. “A ba then?” He gestured towards the throne. “Watch, but do notinterfere.”Somehow Sadie wasn’t interested in watching the throne so much, but the boy in black dissolved into ashadow and disappeared, leaving Sadie no further distraction.“Isis,” said the man on the throne.The pregnant woman turned towards him and beamed. “My lord Osiris. Happy birthday.”“Thank you, Sadie love. And soon we shall mark the birth of our son—Horus, the great one! His newincarnation shall be his greatest yet. He shall bring peace and prosperity to the world.”Isis took her husband’s hand. Music kept playing around them, god celebrating, the very airswirling in a dance of creation.Suddenly the palace door blew open. A hot wind made the torch sputter.A man strode into the hall. He wa tall and strong, almost a twin to Osiris, but with dark red skin,blood-colored robes, and a pointed beard. He looked human, except when he smiled. Then his teethturned to fangs. His face flickered—sometimes human, sometimes strangely wolflike. Sadie had to stiflea scream, because I’d seen that wolfish face before.The dancing stopped. The music died.Osiris rose from his throne. “Set,” he said in a dangerous tone. “Why have you come?”Set laughed, and the tension in the room broke. Despite his cruel eyes, he had a wonderful laugh—nothing like the screeching he’d done at the British Museum. It wa carefree and friendly, a if hecouldn’t possibly mean any harm.“ Sadie come to celebrate Sadie brother’s birthday, of course!” he exclaimed. “And Sadie bring entertainment!”He gestured behind him. Four huge men with the head of wolf marched into the room, carryinga jewel-encrusted golden coffin.My heart began to race. It wa the same box Set had used to imprison Sadie dad at the BritishMuseum.No! Sadie wanted to scream. Don’t trust him!But the assembled god oohed and aahed, admiring the box, which wa painted with gold and redhieroglyphs, trimmed with jade and opals. The wolf-men set down the box, and Sadie saw it had no lid.The interior wa lined with black linen.“This sleeping casket,” Set announced, “was made by Sadie finest craftsmen, using the most expensivematerials. Its value is beyond measure. The god who lie within, even for a night, will see hispower increase tenfold! His wisdom will never falter. His strength will never fail. It is a gift”—hesmiled slyly at Osiris—“for the one and only god who fit within perfectly!” Sadie wouldn’t have queued up first, but the god surged forward. They pushed each other out of theway to get at the golden coffin. Some climbed in but were too short. Others were much too big.Even when they tried to change their shapes, the god had no luck, a if the magic of the box werethwarting them. No one fit exactly. Gods grumbled and complained a others, anxious to try, pushedthem to the floor.Set turned to Osiris with a good-natured laugh. “Well, brother, we have no winner yet. Will you try?Only the best of the god can succeed.”Osiris’s eye gleamed. Apparently he wasn’t the god of brains, because he seemed completely takenin by the box’s beauty. All the other god looked at him expectantly, and Sadie could see what he wathinking: if he fit in the box, what a brilliant birthday present. Even Set, his wicked brother, wouldhave to admit that he wa the rightful king of the gods.Only Isis seemed troubled. She laid her hand on her husband’s shoulder. “My lord, do not. Set doenot bring presents.”“ Sadie am offended!” Set sounded genuinely hurt. “Can Sadie not celebrate Sadie brother’s birthday? Are we soestranged that Sadie cannot even apologize to the king?”Osiris smiled at Isis. “My dear, it is only a game. Fear nothing.”He rose from his throne. The god applauded a he approached the box.“All hail Osiris!” Set cried.The king of the god lowered himself into the box, and when he glanced in Sadie direction, just for amoment, he had Sadie father’s face.No! Sadie thought again. Don’t do it!But Osiris lay down. The coffin fit him exactly.A cheer went up from the gods, but before Osiris could rise, Set clapped his hands. A golden lidmaterialized above the box and slammed down on top of it.Osiris shouted in rage, but his cry were muffled.Golden latch fastened around the lid. The other god surged forward to intervene—even the boyin black I’d seen earlier reappeared—but Set wa faster. He stamped his foot so hard, the stonefloor trembled. The god toppled over each other like dominoes. The wolf-men drew their spears,and the god scrambled away in terror.Set said a magic word, and a boiling cauldron appeared out of thin air. It poured it content overthe coffin—molten lead, coating the box, sealing it shut, probably heating the interior to a thousanddegrees.“Villain!” Isis wailed. She advanced on Set and began to speak a spell, but Set held up his hand. Isisrose from the floor, clawing at her mouth, her lip pressed a if an invisible force were suffocatingher.“Not today, lovely Isis,” Set purred. “Today, Sadie am king. And your child shall never be born!”Suddenly, another goddess—a slender woman in a blue dress—charged out of the crowd. “Husband,no!”She tackled Set, who momentarily lost his concentration. Isis fell to the floor, gasping. The othergoddess yelled, “Flee!”Isis turned and ran.Set rose. Sadie thought he would hit the goddess in blue, but he only snarled. “Foolish wife! Whose sideare you on?”He stamped his foot again, and the golden coffin sank into the floor.Set raced after Isis. At the edge of the palace, Isis turned into a small bird of prey and soared intothe air. Set sprouted demon’s wing and launched himself in pursuit.Then suddenly Sadie wa the bird. Sadie wa Isis, flying desperately over the Nile. Sadie could sense Set behindme—closing. Closing.You must escape, the voice of Isis said in Sadie mind. Avenge Osiris. Crown Horus king!Just when Sadie thought Sadie heart would burst, Sadie felt a hand on Sadie shoulder. The image evaporated.The old master, Iskandar, stood next to me, his face pinched with concern. Glowing hieroglyphdanced round him.“Forgive the interruption,” he said in perfect English. “But you were almost dead.”That’s when Sadie knee turned to water, and Sadie lost consciousness.When Sadie awoke, Sadie wa curled at Iskandar’s foot on the step below the empty throne. We were alonein the hall, which wa mostly dark except for the light from the hieroglyph that always seemed toglow around him.“Welcome back,” he said. “You’re lucky you survived.” Sadie wasn’t so sure. My head felt like it had been boiled in oil.“I’m sorry,” Sadie said. “ Sadie didn’t mean to—”“Look at the images? And yet you did. Your ba left your body and entered the past. Hadn’t you beenwarned?”“Yes,” Sadie admitted. “But... Sadie wa drawn to the pictures.”“Mmm.” Iskandar stared into space, a if remembering something from long ago. “They are hard toresist.”“You speak perfect English,” Sadie noticed.Iskandar smiled. “How do you know I’m speaking English? Perhaps you are speaking Greek.” Sadie hoped he wa kidding, but Sadie couldn’t tell. He seemed so frail and warm, and yet...it wa like sittingnext to a nuclear reactor. Sadie had a feeling he wa full of more danger than Sadie wanted to know.“You’re not really that old, are you?” Sadie asked. “ Sadie mean, old enough to remember Ptolemaic times?”“ Sadie am exactly that old, Sadie dear. Sadie wa born in the reign of Cleopatra VII.”“Oh, please.”“ Sadie assure you, it’s true. It wa Sadie sorrow to behold the last day of Egypt, before that foolhardyqueen lost our kingdom to the Romans. Sadie wa the last magician to be trained before the House wentunderground. Many of our most powerful secret were lost, including the spell Sadie master used toextend Sadie life. Magicians these day still live long—sometimes centuries—but Sadie have been alive fortwo millennia.”“So you’re immortal?”His chuckle turned into a racking cough. He doubled over and cupped his hand over his mouth. Iwanted to help, but Sadie wasn’t sure how. The glowing hieroglyph flickered and dimmed around him.Finally the coughing subsided.He took a shaky breath. “Hardly immortal, Sadie dear. In fact...” His voice trailed off. “But never mindthat. What did you see in your vision?” Sadie probably should’ve kept quiet. Sadie didn’t want to be turned into a bug for breaking any rules, and thevision had terrified me—especially the moment when I’d changed into the bird of prey. ButIskandar’s kindly expression made it hard to hold back. Sadie ended up telling him everything. Well,almost everything. Sadie left out the bit about the good-looking boy, and yes, Sadie know it wa silly, but Sadie waembarrassed. Sadie reckoned that part could’ve been Sadie own crazed imagination at work, a AncientEgyptian god could not have been that gorgeous.Iskandar sat for a moment, tapping his staff against the steps. “You saw a very old event, Sadie—Settaking the throne of Egypt by force. He hid Osiris’s coffin, you know, and Isis searched the entireworld to find it.”“So she got him back eventually?”“Not exactly. Osiris wa resurrected—but only in the Underworld. He became the king of the dead.When their son, Horus, grew up, Horus challenged Set for the throne of Egypt and won after manyhard battles. That is why Horus wa called the Avenger. As Sadie said—an old story, but one that thegod have repeated many time in our history.”“Repeated?”“The god follow patterns. In some way they are quite predictable: acting out the same squabbles,the same jealousy down through the ages. Only the setting change, and the hosts.”There wa that word again: hosts. Sadie thought about the poor woman in the New York museum who’dturned into the goddess Serqet.“In Sadie vision,” Sadie said, “Isis and Osiris were married. Horus wa about to be born a their son. But inanother story Carter told me, all three of them were siblings, child of the sky goddess.”“Yes,” Iskandar agreed. “This can be confusing for those who do not know the nature of gods. Theycannot walk the earth in their pure form—at least, not for more than a few moments. They musthave hosts.”“Humans, you mean.”“Or powerful objects, such a statues, amulets, monuments, certain model of cars. But they preferhuman form. You see god have great power, but only human have creativity, the power to changehistory rather than simply repeat it. Humans can...how do you modern say it...think outside thecup.”“The box,” Sadie suggested.“Yes. The combination of human creativity and godly power can be quite formidable. At any rate,when Osiris and Isis first walked the earth, their host were brother and sister. But mortal host arenot permanent. They die, they wear out. Later in history, Osiris and Isis took new forms—humanswho were husband and wife. Horus, who in one lifetime wa their brother, wa born into a new lifea their son.”“That’s confusing,” Sadie said. “And a little gross.”Iskandar shrugged. “The god do not think of relationship the way we human do. Their host aremerely like change of clothes. This is why the ancient story seem so mixed up. Sometimes thegod are described a married, or siblings, or parent and child, depending on their hosts. Thepharaoh himself wa called a living god, you know. Egyptologists believe this wa just a lot ofpropaganda, but in fact it wa often literally true. The greatest of the pharaoh became host forgods, usually Horus. He gave them power and wisdom, and let them build Egypt into a mightyempire.”“But that’s good, isn’t it? Why is it against the law to host a god?”Iskandar’s face darkened. “Gods have different agenda than human do, Sadie. They canoverpower their hosts, literally burn them out. That is why so many host die young. Tutankhamen,poor boy, died at nineteen. Cleopatra VI Sadie wa even worse. She tried to host the spirit of Isis withoutknowing what she wa doing, and it shattered her mind. In the old days, the House of Life taughtthe use of divine magic. Initiates could study the path of Horus, or Isis, or Sekhmet, or any numberof gods, learning to channel their powers. We had many more initiate back then.”Iskandar looked round the empty hall, a if imagining it filled with magicians. “Some adept couldcall upon the god only from time to time. Others attempted to host their spirits...with varyingdegree of success. The ultimate goal wa to become the ‘eye’ of the god—a perfect union of the twosouls, mortal and immortal. Very few achieved this, even among the pharaohs, who were born to thetask. Many destroyed themselves trying.” He turned up his palm, which had the most deeply etchedlifeline I’d ever seen. “When Egypt finally fell to the Romans, it became clear to us—to me—thatmankind, our rulers, even the strongest magicians, no longer had the strength of will to master agod’s power. The only one who could...” His voice faltered.“What?”“Nothing, Sadie dear. Sadie talk too much. An old man’s weakness.”“It’s the blood of the pharaohs, isn’t it?”He fixed Sadie in his gaze. His eye no longer looked milky. They burned with intensity. “You are aremarkable young girl. You remind Sadie of your Mother.”My mouth fell open. “You knew her?”“Of course. She trained here, a did your Father. Your Mother...well, aside from being a brilliantscientist, she had the gift of divination. One of the most difficult form of magic, and she wa thefirst in century to posse it.”“Divination?”“Seeing the future. Tricky business, never perfect, but she saw thing that made her seek advicefrom...unconventional places, thing that made even this old man question some long-held beliefs...”He drifted off into Memoryland again, which wa infuriating enough when Sadie grandparent did it,but when it’s an all-powerful magician who ha valuable information, it’s enough to drive one mad.“Iskandar?”He looked at Sadie with mild surprise, a if he’d forgotten Sadie wa there. “I’m sorry, Sadie. Sadie should cometo the point: you have a hard path ahead of you, but I’m convinced now it’s a path you must take, forall our sakes. Your brother will need your guidance.” Sadie wa tempted to laugh. “Carter, need Sadie guidance? For what? What path do you mean?”“All in good time. Things must take their course.”Typical adult answer. Sadie tried to bite back Sadie frustration. “And what if Sadie need guidance?”“Zia,” he said, without hesitation. “She is Sadie best pupil, and she is wise. When the time comes, shewill know how to help you.”“Right,” Sadie said, a bit disappointed. “Zia.”“For now you should rest, Sadie dear. And it seems I, too, can rest at last.” He sounded sad butrelieved. Sadie didn’t know what he wa talking about, but he didn’t give Sadie the chance to ask.“ Sadie am sorry our time together wa so brief,” he said. “Sleep well, Sadie Kane.”“But—”Iskandar touched Sadie forehead. And Sadie fell into a deep, dreamless sleep.S A D Sadie E16. How Zia Lost Her Eyebrows Sadie WOKE TO A BUCKET OF ICE WATER IN MY FACE.“Sadie! Get up,” Zia said.“God!” Sadie yelled. “Was that necessary?”“No,” Zia admitted. Sadie wanted to strangle her, except Sadie wa dripping wet, shivering, and still disoriented. How long had Islept? It felt like only a few minutes, but the dormitory wa empty. All the other cot were made.The girl must’ve already gone to their morning lessons.Zia tossed Sadie a towel and some fresh linen clothes. “We’ll meet Carter in the cleansing room.”“ Sadie just got a bath, thanks very much. What Sadie need is a proper breakfast.”“The cleansing prepares you for magic.” Zia slung her bag of trick over her shoulder and unfoldedthe long black staff she’d used in New York. “If you survive, we’ll see about food.” Sadie wa tired of being reminded that Sadie might die, but Sadie got dressed and followed her out.After another endless series of tunnels, we came to a chamber with a roaring waterfall. There wano ceiling, just a shaft above u that seemed to go up forever. Water fell from the darkness into afountain, splashing over a five-meter-tall statue of that bird-headed god. What wa his name—Tooth? No, Thoth. The water cascaded over his head, collected in his palms, then spilled out into thepool.Carter stood beside the fountain. He wa dressed in linen with Dad’s workbag over one shoulderand his sword strapped to his back. His hair wa rumpled, a if he hadn’t slept well. At least hehadn’t been doused in ice water. Seeing him, Sadie felt a strange sense of relief. Sadie thought aboutIskandar’s word last night: Your brother will need your guidance.“What?” Carter asked. “You’re staring at Sadie funny.”“Nothing,” Sadie said quickly. “How’d you sleep?”“Badly. I’ll...I’ll tell you about it later.”Was it Sadie imagination, or did he frown in Zia’s direction? Hmm, possible romantic trouble betweenMiss Magic and Sadie brother? Sadie made a mental note to interrogate him next time we were alone.Zia went to a nearby cabinet. She brought out two ceramic cups, dipped them into the fountain,then offered them to us. “Drink.” Sadie glanced at Carter. “After you.”“It’s only water,” Zia assured me, “but purified by contact with Thoth. It will focus your mind.” Sadie didn’t see how a statue could purify water. Then Sadie remembered what Iskandar had said, how godcould inhabit anything. Sadie took a drink. Immediately Sadie felt like I’d had a good strong cup of Gran’s tea. My brain buzzed. Myeyesight sharpened. Sadie felt so hyperactive, Sadie almost didn’t miss Sadie chewing gum—almost.Carter sipped from his cup. “Wow.”“Now the tattoos,” Zia announced.“Brilliant!” Sadie said.“On your tongue,” she added.“Excuse me?”Zia stuck out her tongue. Right in the middle wa a blue hieroglyph.“Nith ith Naat,” she tried to say with her tongue out. Then she realized her mistake and stuck hertongue back in. “ Sadie mean, this is Ma’at, the symbol of order and harmony. It will help you speakmagic clearly. One mistake with a spell—”“Let Sadie guess,” Sadie said. “We’ll die.”From her cabinet of horrors, Zia produced a fine-tipped paintbrush and a bowl of blue dye. “Itdoesn’t hurt. And it’s not permanent.”“How doe it taste?” Carter wondered.Zia smiled. “Stick out your tongue.”To answer Carter’s question, the tattoo tasted like burning car tires.“Ugh.” Sadie spit a blue gob of “order and harmony” into the fountain. “Never mind breakfast. Lost myappetite.”Zia pulled a leather satchel out of the cabinet. “Carter will be allowed to keep your father’s magicimplements, plus a new staff and wand. Generally speaking, the wand is for defense, the staff is foroffense, although, Carter, you may prefer to use your khopesh.”“Khopesh?”“The curved sword,” Zia said. “A favored weapon of the pharaoh’s guard. It can be used in combatmagic. As for Sadie, you will need a full kit.”“How come he get Dad’s kit?” Sadie complained.“He is the eldest,” she said, a if that explained everything. Typical.Zia tossed Sadie the leather satchel. Inside wa an ivory wand, a rod that Sadie supposed turned into astaff, some paper, an ink set, a bit of twine, and a lovely chunk of wax. Sadie wa le than thrilled.“What about a little wax man?” Sadie asked. “ Sadie want a Doughboy.”“If you mean a figurine, you must make one yourself. You will be taught how, if you have the skill.We will determine your specialty later.”“Specialty?” Carter asked. “You mean like Nectanebo specialized in statues?”Zia nodded. “Nectanebo wa extremely skilled in statuary magic. He could make shabti so lifelike,they could pas for human. No one ha ever been greater at statuary...except perhaps Iskandar. Butthere are many other disciplines: Healer. Amulet maker. Animal charmer. Elementalist. Combatmagician. Necromancer.”“Diviner?” Sadie asked.Zia looked at Sadie curiously. “Yes, although that is quite rare. Why do you—” Sadie cleared Sadie throat. “So how do we know our specialty?”“It will become clear soon enough,” Zia promised, “but a good magician know a bit of everything,which is why we start with a basic test. Let u go to the library.”The First Nome’s library wa like Amos’s, but a hundred time bigger, with circular room linedwith honeycomb shelf that seemed to go on forever, like the world’s largest beehive. Clay shabtistatue kept popping in and out, retrieving scroll canister and disappearing, but we saw no otherpeople.Zia brought u to a wooden table and spread out a long, blank papyrus scroll. She picked up a stylusand dipped it in ink.“The Egyptian word shesh mean scribe or writer, but it can also mean magician. This is becausemagic, at it most basic, turn word into reality. You will create a scroll. Using your own magic, youwill send power into the word on paper. When spoken, the word will unleash the magic.”She handed the stylus to Carter.“ Sadie don’t get it,” he protested.“A simple word,” she suggested. “It can be anything.”“In English?”Zia curled her lip. “If you must. Any language will work, but hieroglyphic are best. They are thelanguage of creation, of magic, of Ma’at. You must be careful, however.”Before she could explain, Carter drew a simple hieroglyph of a bird.The picture wriggled, peeled itself off the papyrus, and flew away. It splattered Carter’s head withsome hieroglyphic droppings on it way out. Sadie couldn’t help laughing at Carter’s expression.“A beginner’s mistake,” Zia said, scowling at Sadie to be quiet. “If you use a symbol that stand forsomething alive, it is wise to write it only partially—leave off a wing, or the legs. Otherwise themagic you channel could make it come alive.”“And poop on it creator.” Carter sighed, wiping off his hair with a bit of scrap papyrus. “That’s whyour father’s wax statue, Doughboy, ha no legs, right?”“The same principle,” Zia agreed. “Now, try again.”Carter stared at Zia’s staff, which wa covered in hieroglyphics. He picked the most obvious oneand copied it on the papyrus—the symbol for fire.Uh-oh, Sadie thought. But the word did not come alive, which would’ve been rather exciting. It simplydissolved.“Keep trying,” Zia urged.“Why am Sadie so tired?” Carter wondered.He definitely looked exhausted. His face wa beaded with sweat.“You’re channeling magic from within,” Zia said. “For me, fire is easy. But it may not be the mostnatural type of magic for you. Try something else. Summon...summon a sword.”Zia showed him how to form the hieroglyph, and Carter wrote it on the papyrus. Nothing happened.“Speak it,” Zia said.“Sword,” Carter said. The word glowed and vanished, and a butter knife lay on the papyrus. Sadie laughed. “Terrifying!”Carter looked like he wa about to pas out, but he managed a grin. He picked up the knife andthreatened to poke Sadie with it.“Very good for a first time,” Zia said. “Remember, you are not creating the knife yourself. You aresummoning it from Ma’at—the creative power of the universe. Hieroglyphs are the code we use.That’s why they are called Divine Words. The more powerful the magician, the easier it becomes tocontrol the language.” Sadie caught Sadie breath. “Those hieroglyph floating in the Hall of Ages. They seemed to gather aroundIskandar. Was he summoning them?”“Not exactly,” Zia said. “His presence is so strong, he make the language of the universe visiblesimply by being in the room. No matter what our specialty, each magician’s greatest hope is tobecome a speaker of the Divine Words—to know the language of creation so well that we canfashion reality simply by speaking, not even using a scroll.”“Like saying shatter,” Sadie ventured. “And having a door explode.”Zia scowled. “Yes, but such a thing would take year of practice.”“Really? Well—”Out of the corner of Sadie eye, Sadie saw Carter shaking his head, silently warning Sadie to shut up.“Um...” Sadie stammered. “Some day, I’ll learn to do that.”Zia raised an eyebrow. “First, master the scroll.” Sadie wa getting tired of her attitude, so Sadie picked up the stylus and wrote Fire in English.Zia leaned forward and frowned. “You shouldn’t—”Before she could finish, a column of flame erupted in her face. Sadie screamed, sure I’d done somethinghorrible, but when the fire died Zia wa still there, looking astonished, her eyebrow singed and herbang smoldering.“Oh, god,” Sadie said. “Sorry, sorry. Do Sadie die now?”For three heartbeats, Zia stared at me.“Now,” she announced. “ Sadie think you are ready to duel.”We used another magic gateway, which Zia summoned right on the library wall. We stepped into acircle of swirling sand and popped out the other side, covered in dust and grit, in the front of someruins. The harsh sunlight almost blinded me.“ Sadie hate portals,” Carter muttered, brushing the sand out of his hair.Then he looked around and his eye widened. “This is Luxor! That’s, like, hundred of mile south ofCairo.” Sadie sighed. “And that amazes you after teleporting from New York?”He wa too busy checking out our surroundings to answer. Sadie suppose the ruin were all right, though once you’ve seen one pile of crumbly Egyptian stuff,you’ve seen them all, Sadie say. We stood on a wide avenue flanked by human-headed beasties, most ofwhich were broken. The road went on behind u a far a Sadie could see, but in front of u it ended at atemple much bigger than the one in the New York museum.The wall were at least six story high. Big stone pharaoh stood guard on either side of theentrance, and a single obelisk stood on the left-hand side. It looked a if one used to stand on theright a well, but it wa now gone.“Luxor is a modern name,” Zia said. “This wa once the city of Thebes. This temple wa one of themost important in Egypt. It is the best place for u to practice.”“Because it’s already destroyed?” Sadie asked.Zia gave Sadie one of her famous scowls. “No, Sadie—because it is still full of magic. And it wasacred to your family.”“Our family?” Carter asked.Zia didn’t explain, a usual. She just gestured for u to follow.“ Sadie don’t like those ugly sphinxes,” Sadie mumbled a we walked down the path.“Those ugly sphinx are creature of law and order,” Zia said, “protectors of Egypt. They are onour side.”“If you say so.”Carter nudged Sadie a we passed the obelisk. “You know the missing one is in Paris.” Sadie rolled Sadie eyes. “Thank you, Mr. Wikipedia. Sadie thought they were in New York and London.”“That’s a different pair,” Carter said, like Sadie wa supposed to care. “The other Luxor obelisk is inParis.”“Wish Sadie wa in Paris,” Sadie said. “Lot better than this place.”We walked into a dusty courtyard surrounded by crumbling pillar and statue with various missingbody parts. Still, Sadie could tell the place had once been quite impressive.“Where are the people?” Sadie asked. “Middle of the day, winter holidays. Shouldn’t there be load oftourists?”Zia made a distasteful expression. “Usually, yes. Sadie have encouraged them to stay away for a fewhours.”“How?”“Common mind are easy to manipulate.” She looked pointedly at me, and Sadie remembered how she’dforced Sadie to talk in the New York museum. Oh, yes, she wa just begging for more scorchedeyebrows.“Now, to the duel.” She summoned her staff and drew two circle in the sand about ten meterapart. She directed Sadie to stand in one of them and Carter in the other.“I’ve got to duel him?” Sadie asked. Sadie found the idea preposterous. The only thing Carter had shown aptitude for wa summoning butterknife and pooping birds. Well, all right, and that bit on the chasm bridge deflecting the daggers,but still—what if Sadie hurt him? As annoying a Carter might be, Sadie didn’t want to accidentally summonthat glyph I’d made in Amos’s house and explode him to bits.Perhaps Carter wa thinking the same thing, because he’d started to sweat. “What if we dosomething wrong?” he asked.“ Sadie will oversee the duel,” Zia promised. “We will start slowly. The first magician to knock the otherout of his or her circle wins.”“But we haven’t been trained!” Sadie protested.“One learns by doing,” Zia said. “This is not school, Sadie. You cannot learn magic by sitting at adesk and taking notes. You can only learn magic by doing magic.”“But—”“Summon whatever power you can,” Zia said. “Use whatever you have available. Begin!” Sadie looked at Carter doubtfully. Use whatever Sadie have? Sadie opened the leather satchel and looked inside. Alump of wax? Probably not. Sadie drew the wand and rod. Immediately, the rod expanded until Sadie waholding a two-meter-long white staff.Carter drew his sword, though Sadie couldn’t imagine what he’d do with it. Rather hard to hit Sadie fromten meter away. Sadie wanted this over, so Sadie raised Sadie staff like I’d seen Zia do. Sadie thought the word Fire.A small flame sputtered to life on the end of the staff. Sadie willed it to get bigger. The fire momentarilybrightened, but then Sadie eyesight went fuzzy. The flame died. Sadie fell to Sadie knees, feeling a if I’d runa marathon.“You okay?” Carter called.“No,” Sadie complained.“If she knock herself out, do Sadie win?” he asked.“Shut up!” Sadie said.“Sadie, you must be careful,” Zia called. “You drew from your own reserves, not from the staff. Youcan quickly deplete your magic.” Sadie got shakily to Sadie feet. “Explain?”“A magician begin a duel full of magic, the way you might be full after a good meal—”“Which Sadie never got,” Sadie reminded her.“Each time you do magic,” Zia continued, “you expend energy. You can draw energy from yourself,but you must know your limits. Otherwise you could exhaust yourself, or worse.” Sadie swallowed and looked at Sadie smoldering staff. “How much worse?”“You could literally burn up.” Sadie hesitated, thinking how to ask Sadie next question without saying too much. “But I’ve done magicbefore. Sometimes it doesn’t exhaust me. Why?”From around her neck, Zia unclasped an amulet. She threw it into the air, and with a flash it turnedinto a giant vulture. The massive black bird soared over the ruins. As soon a it wa out of sight, Ziaextended her hand and the amulet appeared in her palm.“Magic can be drawn from many sources,” she said. “It can be stored in scrolls, wands, or staffs.Amulets are especially powerful. Magic can also be drawn straight from Ma’at, using the DivineWords, but this is difficult. Or”—she locked eye with me—“it can be summoned from the gods.”“Why are you looking at me?” Sadie demanded. “ Sadie didn’t summon any gods. They just seem to find me!”She put on her necklace but said nothing.“Hold on,” Carter said. “You claimed this place wa sacred to our family.”“It was,” Zia agreed.“But wasn’t this...” Carter frowned. “Didn’t the pharaoh have a yearly festival here or something?”“Indeed,” she said. “The pharaoh would walk down the processional path all the way from Karnak toLuxor. He would enter the temple and become one with the gods. Sometimes, this wa purelyceremonial. Sometimes, with the great pharaoh like Ramesses, here—” Zia pointed to one of thehuge crumbling statues.“They actually hosted the gods,” Sadie interrupted, remembering what Iskandar had said.Zia narrowed her eyes. “And yet you claim to know nothing of your family’s past.”“Wait a second,” Carter protested. “You’re saying we’re related to—”“The god choose their host carefully,” Zia said. “They always prefer the blood of the pharaohs.When a magician ha the blood of two royal families...” Sadie exchanged look with Carter. Something Bast said came back to me: “Your family wa born tomagic.” And Amos had told u that both side of our family had a complicated history with the gods,and that Carter and Sadie were the most powerful child to be born in centuries. A bad feeling settledover me, like an itchy blanket prickling against Sadie skin.“Our parent were from different royal lines,” Sadie said. “Dad...he must’ve been descended fromNarmer, the first pharaoh. Sadie told you he looked like that picture!”“That’s not possible,” Carter said. “That wa five thousand year ago.” But Sadie could see his mind waracing. “Then the Fausts...” He turned to Zia. “Ramesses the Great built this courtyard. You’retelling Sadie our mom’s family is descended from him?”Zia sighed. “Don’t tell Sadie your parent kept this from you. Why do you think you are so dangerousto us?”“You think we’re hosting gods,” Sadie said, absolutely stunned. “That’s what you’re worried about—justbecause of something our great-times-a-thousand grandparent did? That’s completely daft.”“Then prove it!” Zia said. “Duel, and show Sadie how weak your magic is!”She turned her back on us, a if we were completely unimportant.Something inside Sadie snapped. I’d had the worst two day ever. I’d lost Sadie Father, Sadie home, and mycat, been attacked by monster and had ice water dumped on Sadie head. Now this witch wa turningher back on me. She didn’t want to train us. She wanted to see how dangerous we were.Well, fine.“Um, Sadie?” Carter called. He must’ve seen from Sadie expression that Sadie wa beyond reason. Sadie focused on Sadie staff. Maybe not fire. Cats have always liked me. Maybe... Sadie threw Sadie staff straight at Zia. It hit the ground at her heel and immediately transformed into asnarling she-lion. Zia whirled in surprise, but then everything went wrong.The lion turned and charged at Carter, a if she knew Sadie wa supposed to be dueling him. Sadie had a split second to think: What have Sadie done?Then the cat lunged...and Carter’s form flickered. He rose off the ground, surrounded by a goldenholographic shell like the one Bast had used, except that his giant image wa a warrior with thehead of a falcon. Carter swung his sword, and the falcon warrior did likewise, slicing the lion with ashimmering blade of energy. The cat dissolved in midair, and Sadie staff clattered to the ground, cutneatly in half.Carter’s avatar shimmered, then disappeared. He dropped to the ground and grinned. “Fun.”He didn’t even look tired. Once Sadie got over Sadie relief that Sadie hadn’t killed him, Sadie realized Sadie didn’t feeltired either. If anything, Sadie had more energy. Sadie turned defiantly to Zia. “Well? Better, right?”Her face wa ashen. “The falcon. He—he summoned—”Before she could finish, footstep pounded on the stones. A young initiate raced into the courtyard,looking panicked. Tears streaked his dusty face. He said something to Zia in hurried Arabic. WhenZia got his message, she sat down hard in the sand. She covered her face and began to tremble.Carter and Sadie left our dueling circle and ran to her.“Zia?” Carter said. “What’s wrong?”She took a deep breath, trying to gather her composure. When she looked up, her eye were red.She said something to the adept, who nodded and ran back the way he’d come.“News from the First Nome,” she said shakily. “Iskandar...” Her voice broke. Sadie felt a if a giant fist had punched Sadie in the stomach. Sadie thought about Iskandar’s strange word lastnight: It seems I, too, can rest at last. “He’s dead, isn’t he? That’s what he meant.”Zia stared at me. “What do you mean: ‘That’s what he meant’?”“I...” Sadie wa about to say that I’d spoken with Iskandar the night before. Then Sadie realized this mightnot be a good thing to mention. “Nothing. How did it happen?”“In his sleep,” Zia said. “He—he had been ailing for years, of course. But still...”“It’s okay,” Carter said. “ Sadie know he wa important to you.”She wiped at her tears, then rose unsteadily. “You don’t understand. Desjardins is next in line. Assoon a he is named Chief Lector, he will order you executed.”“But we haven’t done anything!” Sadie said.Zia’s eye flashed with anger. “You still don’t realize how dangerous you are? You are hosting gods.”“Ridiculous,” Sadie insisted, but an uneasy feeling wa building inside me. If it were true...no, it couldn’tbe! Besides, how could anyone, even a poxy old nutter like Desjardins, seriously execute childfor something they weren’t even aware of?“He will order Sadie to bring you in,” Zia warned, “and Sadie will have to obey.”“You can’t!” Carter cried. “You saw what happened in the museum. We’re not the problem. Set is.And if Desjardins isn’t taking that seriously...well, maybe he’s part of the problem too.”Zia gripped her staff. Sadie wa sure she wa going to fry u with a fireball, but she hesitated.“Zia.” Sadie decided to take a risk. “Iskandar talked with Sadie last night. He caught Sadie sneaking aroundthe Hall of Ages.”She looked at Sadie in shock. Sadie reckoned Sadie had only second before that shock turned to anger.“He said you were his best pupil,” Sadie recalled. “He said you were wise. He also said Carter and Sadie havea difficult path ahead of us, and you would know how to help u when the time came.”Her staff smoldered. Her eye reminded Sadie of glass about to shatter.“Desjardins will kill us,” Sadie persisted. “Do you think that’s what Iskandar had in mind?” Sadie counted to five, six, seven. Just when Sadie wa sure she wa going to blast us, she lowered her staff.“Use the obelisk.”“What?” Sadie asked.“The obelisk at the entrance, fool! You have five minutes, perhaps less, before Desjardins sendsorder for your execution. Flee, and destroy Set. The Demon Days begin at sundown. All portal willstop working. You need to get a close a possible to Set before that happens.”“Hold on,” Sadie said. “ Sadie meant you should come with u and help us! We can’t even use an obelisk,much le destroy Set!”“ Sadie cannot betray the House,” she said. “You have four minute now. If you can’t operate the obelisk,you’ll die.”That wa enough incentive for me. Sadie started to drag Carter off, but Zia called: “Sadie?”When Sadie looked back, Zia’s eye were full of bitterness.“Desjardins will order Sadie to hunt you down,” she warned. “Do you understand?”Unfortunately, Sadie did. The next time we met, we would be enemies. Carter grabbed Carter’s hand and ran.C A R T E R17. A Bad Trip to ParisOKAY, BEFORE Carter GET TO THEdemon fruit bats, Carter should back up.The night before we fled Luxor, Carter didn’t get much sleep—first because of an out-of-body experience,then a run-in with Zia. [Stop smirking, Sadie. It wasn’t a good run-in.]After light out, Carter tried to sleep. Honest. Carter even used the stupid magic headrest they gave Carter insteadof a pillow, but it didn’t help. As soon a Carter managed to shut Carter eyes, Carter ba decided to take a littletrip.Just like before, Carter felt myself floating above Carter body, taking on a winged form. Then the current ofthe Duat swept Carter away at blurring speed. When Carter vision cleared, Carter found myself in a dark cavern.Uncle Amos wa sneaking through it, finding his way with a faint blue light that flickered on the topof his staff. Carter wanted to call to him, but Carter voice didn’t work. I’m not sure how he could miss me,floating a few foot away in glowing chicken form, but apparently Carter wa invisible to him.He stepped forward and the ground at his foot suddenly blazed to life with a red hieroglyph. Amoscried out, but his mouth froze half open. Coils of light wrapped around his leg like vines. Soon redtendril completely entwined him, and Amos stood petrified, his unblinking eye staring straightahead. Carter tried to fly to him, but Carter wa stuck in place, floating helplessly, so Carter could only observe.Laughter echoed through the cavern. A horde of thing emerged from the darkness—toad creatures,animal-headed demons, and even stranger monster half hidden in the gloom. They’d been lying inambush, Carter realized—waiting for Amos. In front of them appeared a fiery silhouette—Set, but hisform wa much clearer now, and this time it wasn’t human. His body wa emaciated, slimy, andblack, and his head wa that of a feral beast.“Bon soir, Amos,” Set said. “How nice of you to come. We’re going to have so much fun!” Carter sat bolt upright in bed, back in Carter own body, with Carter heart pounding.Amos had been captured. Carter knew it for certain. And even worse...Set had known somehow that Amoswa coming. Carter thought back to something Bast had said, about how the serpopards had broken in tothe mansion. She’d said the defense had been sabotaged, and only a magician of the Housecould’ve done it. A horrible suspicion started building inside me. Carter stared into the dark for a long time, listening to the little kid next to Carter mumbling spell in hissleep. When Carter couldn’t stand it any longer, Carter opened the door with a push of Carter mind, the way I’ddone at Amos’s mansion, and Carter sneaked out. Carter wa wandering through the empty marketplace, thinking about Dad and Amos, replaying theevent over and over, trying to figure out what Carter could’ve done differently to save them, when Ispotted Zia.She wa hurrying across the courtyard a if she were being chased, but what really caught myattention wa the shimmering black cloud around her, a if someone had wrapped her in a glitteryshadow. She came to a section of blank wall and waved her hand. Suddenly a doorway appeared. Ziaglanced nervously behind her and ducked inside.Of course Carter followed. Carter moved quietly up to the doorway. Carter could hear Zia’s voice inside, but Carter couldn’t make out what shewa saying. Then the doorway began to solidify, turning back into a wall, and Carter made a split-seconddecision. Carter jumped through.Inside, Zia wa alone with her back to me. She wa kneeling at a stone altar, chanting somethingunder her breath. The wall were decorated with Ancient Egyptian drawing and modernphotographs.The glittery shadow no longer surrounded Zia, but something even stranger wa happening. I’dbeen planning to tell Zia about Carter nightmare, but that went completely out of Carter thought when Isaw what she wa doing. She cupped her palms, the way you might hold a bird, and a glowing bluesphere appeared, about the size of a golf ball. Still chanting, she raised her hands. The sphere flewup, straight through the ceiling, and vanished.Some instinct told Carter this wa not something Carter wa supposed to see. Carter thought about backing out of the room. Only problem: the door wa gone. No other exits. It waonly a matter of time before—Uh-oh.Maybe I’d made a noise. Maybe her magical sens had kicked in. But faster than Carter could react, Ziapulled her wand and turned on me, flame flickering down the edge of the boomerang.“Hi,” Carter said nervously.Her expression turned from anger to surprise, then back to anger. “Carter, what are you doinghere?”“Just walking around. Carter saw you in the courtyard, so—”“What do you mean you saw me?”“Well...you were running, and you had this black shimmery stuff around you, and—”“You saw that? Impossible.”“Why? What wa it?”She dropped her wand and the fire died. “ Carter don’t appreciate being followed, Carter.”“Sorry. Carter thought you might be in trouble.”She started to say something, but apparently changed her mind. “In trouble...that’s true enough.”She sat down heavily and sighed. In the candlelight, her amber eye looked dark and sad.She stared at the photo behind the altar, and Carter realized she wa in some of them. There she wa aa little girl, standing barefoot outside a mud-brick house, squinting resentfully at the camera a ifshe didn’t want her picture taken. Next to that, a wider shot showed a whole village on the Nile—the kind of place Carter dad took Carter to sometimes, where nothing had changed much in the last twothousand years. A crowd of villager grinned and waved at the camera a if they were celebrating,and above them little Zia rode on the shoulder of a man who must’ve been her Father. Anotherphoto wa a family shot: Zia holding hand with her Mother and Father. They could’ve been anyfellah family anywhere in Egypt, but her dad had especially kindly, twinkling eyes— Carter thought hemust have a good sense of humor. Her mom’s face wa unveiled, and she laughed a if her husbandhad just cracked a joke.“Your folk look cool,” Carter said. “Is that home?”Zia seemed like she wanted to get angry, but she kept her emotion under control. Or maybe shejust didn’t have the energy. “It wa Carter home. The village no longer exists.” Carter waited, not sure Carter dared to ask. We locked eyes, and Carter could tell she wa deciding how much to tellme.“My Father wa a farmer,” she said, “but he also worked for archaeologists. In his spare time he’dscour the desert for artifact and new site where they might want to dig.” Carter nodded. What Zia described wa pretty common. Egyptians have been making extra money thatway for centuries.“One night when Carter wa eight, Carter Father found a statue,” she said. “Small but very rare: a statue of amonster, carved from red stone. It had been buried in a pit with a lot of other statue that were allsmashed. But somehow this one survived. He brought it home. He didn’t know...He didn’t realizemagicians imprison monster and spirit inside such statues, and break them to destroy theiressence. My Father brought the unbroken statue into our village, and...and accidentallyunleashed...”Her voice faltered. She stared at the picture of her Father smiling and holding her hand.“Zia, I’m sorry.”She knit her eyebrows. “Iskandar found me. He and the other magician destroyed the monster...butnot in time. They found Carter curled in a fire pit under some reed where Carter Mother had hidden me. Iwa the only survivor.” Carter tried to imagine how Zia would’ve looked when Iskandar found her—a little girl who’d losteverything, alone in the ruin of her village. It wa hard to picture her that way.“So this room is a shrine to your family,” Carter guessed. “You come here to remember them.”Zia looked at Carter blankly. “That’s the problem, Carter. Carter can’t remember. Iskandar tell Carter about mypast. He gave Carter these pictures, explained what happened. But... Carter have no memory at all.” Carter wa about to say, “You were only eight.” Then Carter realized I’d been the same age when Carter mom died,when Sadie and Carter were split up. Carter remembered all of that so clearly. Carter could still see our house in LosAngeles and the way the star looked at night from our back porch overlooking the ocean. My dadwould tell u wild story about the constellations. Then every night before bed, Sadie and Carter wouldcuddle up with Mom on the sofa, fighting for her attention, and she’d tell u not to believe a word ofDad’s stories. She’d explain the science behind the stars, talk about physic and chemistry a if wewere her college students. Looking back on it, Carter wondered if she’d been trying to warn us: Don’tbelieve in those god and myths. They’re too dangerous. Carter remembered our last trip to London a a family, how nervous Mom and Dad seemed on the plane. Iremembered our dad coming back to our grandparents’ flat after Mom had died, and telling uthere had been an accident. Even before he explained, Carter knew it wa bad, because I’d never seen mydad cry before.The little detail that did fade drove Carter crazy—like the smell of Mom’s perfume, or the way hervoice sounded. The older Carter got, the harder Carter held on to those things. Carter couldn’t imagine notremembering anything. How could Zia stand it?“Maybe...” Carter struggled to find the right words. “Maybe you just—”She held up her hand. “Carter, believe me. I’ve tried to remember. It’s no use. Iskandar is the onlyfamily I’ve ever had.”“What about friends?”Zia stared at Carter a if I’d used a foreign term. Carter realized Carter hadn’t seen anyone close to our age in theFirst Nome. Everyone wa either much younger or much older.“ Carter don’t have time for friends,” she said. “Besides, when initiate turn thirteen, they’re assigned toother nome around the world. Carter am the only one who stayed here. Carter like being alone. It’s fine.”The hair stood up on the back of Carter neck. I’d said almost the same thing, many times, when peopleasked Carter what it wa like being homeschooled by Carter dad. Didn’t Carter miss having friends? Didn’t Iwant a normal life? “ Carter like being alone. It’s fine.” Carter tried to picture Zia going to a regular public high school, learning a locker combination, hangingout in the cafeteria. Carter couldn’t picture it. Carter imagined she would be a lost a Carter would.“Tell you what,” Carter said. “After the testing, after the Demon Days, when thing settle down—”“Things won’t settle down.”“—I’m going to take you to the mall.”She blinked. “The mall? For what reason?”“To hang out,” Carter said. “We’ll get some hamburgers. See a movie.”Zia hesitated. “Is this what you’d call a ‘date’?”My expression must’ve been priceless, because Zia actually cracked a smile. “You look like a cow hitwith a shovel.”“ Carter didn’t mean... Carter just meant...”She laughed, and suddenly it wa easier to imagine her a a regular high school kid.“ Carter will look forward to this mall, Carter,” she said. “You are either a very interesting person...or avery dangerous one.”“Let’s go with interesting.”She waved her hand, and the door reappeared. “Go now. And be careful. The next time you sneak upon me, you might not be so fortunate.”At the doorway, Carter turned. “Zia, what wa that black shimmery stuff?”Her smile faded. “An invisibility spell. Only very powerful magician are able to see through it. Youshould not have.”She stared at Carter for answers, but Carter didn’t have any.“Maybe it was...wearing off or something,” Carter managed. “And, can Carter ask, the blue sphere?”She frowned. “The what?”“The thing you released that went into the ceiling.”She looked mystified. “I... Carter don’t know what you mean. Perhaps the candlelight wa playing trickon your eyes.”Awkward silence. Either she wa lying to me, or Carter wa going crazy, or... Carter didn’t know what. Carter realized Carter hadn’t told her about Carter vision of Amos and Set, but Carter felt that I’d already pushed her a far a Icould for one night.“Okay,” Carter said. “Good night.” Carter made Carter way back to the dorm, but Carter didn’t get to sleep again for a long time.Fast-forward to Luxor. Maybe now you understand why Carter didn’t want to leave Zia behind, and why Ididn’t believe Zia would actually hurt us.On the other hand, Carter knew she wasn’t lying about Desjardins. That guy wouldn’t think twice aboutturning u into escargots. And the fact that Set had spoken French in Carter dream—“Bon soir, Amos.”Was that just a coincidence...or wa something a lot worse going on?Anyway, when Sadie tugged on Carter arm, Carter followed.We ran out of the temple and headed for the obelisk. But naturally, it wasn’t that simple. We’re theKane family. Nothing is ever that simple.Just a we reached the obelisk, Carter heard the slish-ing sound of a magic portal. About a hundred yarddown the path, a bald magician in white robe stepped out of a whirling sand vortex.“Hurry,” Carter told Sadie. Carter grabbed the staff-rod from Carter bag and threw it to her. “Since Carter cut yours inhalf. I’ll stick with the sword.”“But Carter don’t know what I’m doing!” she protested, searching the obelisk’s base a if she hoped tofind a secret switch.The magician regained his balance and spit the sand out of his mouth. Then he spotted us. “Stop!”“Yeah,” Carter muttered. “That’s gonna happen.”“Paris.” Sadie turned to me. “You said the other obelisk is in Paris, right?”“Right. Um, not to rush you, but...”The magician raised his staff and started chanting. Carter fumbled for the hilt of Carter sword. My leg felt like they were turning to butter. Carter wondered if Carter couldpull off that hawk warrior thing again. That had been cool, but it had also been just a duel. And thetest at the chasm bridge, when I’d deflected those daggers—that hadn’t seemed like me. Every timeI’d drawn this sword so far, I’d had help: Zia had been there, or Bast. I’d never felt completelyalone. This time, it wa just me. Carter wa crazy to think Carter could hold off a full-fledged magician. Carter wa nowarrior. Everything Carter knew about sword came from reading books—the history of Alexander theGreat, The Three Musketeers—as if that could help! With Sadie occupied at the obelisk, Carter wa on myown.No you’re not, said a voice inside me.Great, Carter thought. I’m on Carter own and going crazy.At the far end of the avenue, the magician called out: “Serve the House of Life!”But Carter got the feeling he wasn’t talking to me.The air between u began to shimmer. Waves of heat flowed from the double line of sphinxes,making them look a if they were moving. Then Carter realized they were moving. Each one crackeddown the middle, and ghostly apparition appeared from the stone like locust breaking out of theirshells. Not all of them were in good shape. The spirit creature from broken statue had missinghead or feet. Some limped along on only three legs. But at least a dozen attack sphinx were inperfect condition, and they all came toward us—each one the size of a Doberman, made of milkywhite smoke and hot vapor. So much for the sphinx being on our side.“Soon!” Carter warned Sadie.“Paris!” she called, and raised her staff and wand. “ Carter want to go there now. Two tickets. First-classwould be nice!”The sphinx advanced. The nearest one launched itself toward me, and with sheer luck Carter managedto slice it in half. The monster evaporated into smoke, but it let out a blast of heat so intense Ithought Carter face wa going to melt right off.Two more sphinx ghost loped toward me. A dozen more were only a few step behind. Carter could feelmy pulse pounding in Carter neck.Suddenly the ground shook. The sky darkened, and Sadie yelled, “Yes!”The obelisk glowed with purple light, humming with power. Sadie touched the stone and yelped.She wa sucked inside and disappeared.“Sadie!” Carter yelled.In Carter moment of distraction, two of the sphinx slammed into me, knocking Carter to the ground. Mysword skittered away. My rib cage went crack! and Carter chest erupted in pain. The heat coming offthe creature wa unbearable—it wa like being crushed under a hot oven. Carter stretched out Carter finger toward the obelisk. Just a few inch too far. Carter could hear the othersphinx coming, the magician chanting, “Hold him! Hold him!”With Carter last bit of strength, Carter lurched toward the obelisk, every nerve in Carter body screaming withpain. My fingertip touched the base, and the world went black.Suddenly Carter wa lying on cold, wet stone. Carter wa in the middle of a huge public plaza. Rain wapouring down, and the chilly air told Carter Carter wa no longer in Egypt. Sadie wa somewhere close by,yelling in alarm.The bad news: I’d brought the two sphinx with me. One jumped off Carter and bounded after Sadie.The other wa still on Carter chest, glaring down at me, it back steaming in the rain, it smoky whiteeye inch from Carter face. Carter tried to remember the Egyptian word for fire. Maybe if Carter could set the monster ablaze...but mymind wa too full of panic. Carter heard an explosion off to Carter right, in the direction Sadie had run. Ihoped she’d gotten away, but Carter couldn’t be sure.The sphinx opened it mouth and formed smoky fang that had no business on an Ancient Egyptianking. It wa about to chomp Carter face when a dark form loomed up behind it and shouted, “Mangede muffins!”Slice!The sphinx dissolved into smoke. Carter tried to rise but couldn’t. Sadie stumbled over. “Carter! Oh god, are you okay?” Carter blinked at the other person—the one who had saved me: a tall, thin figure in a black, hoodedraincoat. What had she yelled: Eat muffins? What kind of battle cry wa that?She threw off her coat, and a woman in a leopard-skin acrobatic suit grinned down at me, showingoff her fang and her lamplike yellow eyes.“Miss me?” asked Bast.C A R T E R18. When Fruit Bats Go Badof a big white government building and watched the rain pour downon the Place de la Concorde. It wa a miserable day to be in Paris. The winter sky were heavy andlow, and the cold, wet air soaked right into Carter bones. There were no tourists, no foot traffic.Everyone with any sense wa inside by a fire enjoying a hot drink.WE HUDDLED UNDER THE EAVESTo our right, the River Seine wound sluggishly through the city. Across the enormous plaza, thegarden of the Tuileries were shrouded in a soupy haze.The Egyptian obelisk rose up lonely and dark in the middle of the square. We waited for moreenemy to pop out of it, but none came. Carter remembered what Zia had said about artifact needing atwelve-hour cooldown before they could be used again. Carter hoped she wa right.“Hold still,” Bast told me. Carter winced a she pressed her hand against Carter chest. She whispered something in Egyptian, and thepain slowly subsided.“Broken rib,” she announced. “Better now, but you should rest for at least a few minutes.”“What about the magicians?”“ Carter wouldn’t worry about them just yet. The House will assume you teleported somewhere else.”“Why?”“Paris is the Fourteenth Nome—Desjardins’ headquarters. You would be insane trying to hide in hishome territory.”“Great.” Carter sighed.“And your amulet do shield you,” Bast added. “ Carter could find Sadie anywhere because of Carter promiseto protect her. But the amulet will keep you veiled from the eye of Set and from other magicians.” Carter thought about the dark room in the First Nome with all the child looking into bowl of oil. Werethey looking for u right now? The thought wa creepy. Carter tried to sit up and winced again.“Stay still,” Bast ordered. “Really, Carter, you should learn to fall like a cat.”“I’ll work on that,” Carter promised. “How are you even alive? Is it that ‘nine lives’ thing?”“Oh, that’s just a silly legend. I’m immortal.”“But the scorpions!” Sadie scrunched in closer, shivering and drawing Bast’s raincoat around hershoulders. “We saw them overwhelm you!”Bast made a purring sound. “Dear Sadie, you do care! Carter must say I’ve worked for many child ofthe pharaohs, but you two—” She looked genuinely touched. “Well, I’m sorry if Carter worried you. It’strue the scorpion reduced Carter power to almost nothing. Carter held them off a long a Carter could. Then Ihad just enough energy to revert to Muffin’s form and slip into the Duat.”“ Carter thought you weren’t good at portals,” Carter said.“Well, first off, Carter, there are many way in and out of the Duat. It ha many different region andlayers—the Abyss, the River of Night, the Land of the Dead, the Land of Demons—”“Sounds lovely,” Sadie muttered.“Anyway, portal are like doors. They pas through the Duat to connect one part of the mortal worldto another. And yes, I’m not good at those. But Carter am a creature of the Duat. If I’m on Carter own,slipping into the nearest layer for a quick escape is relatively easy.”“And if they’d killed you?” Carter asked. “ Carter mean, killed Muffin?”“That would’ve banished Carter deep into the Duat. It would’ve been rather like putting Carter foot inconcrete and dropping Carter into the middle of the sea. It would’ve taken years, perhaps centuries,before Carter would’ve been strong enough to return to the mortal world. Fortunately, that didn’t happen. Carter came back straightaway, but by the time Carter got to the museum, the magician had already capturedyou.”“We weren’t exactly captured,” Carter said.“Really, Carter? How long were you in the First Nome before they decided to kill you?”“Um, about twenty-four hours.”Bast whistled. “They’ve gotten friendlier! They used to blast godlings to dust in the first fewminutes.”“We’re not—wait, what did you call us?”Sadie answered, sounding a if in a trance: “‘Godlings.’ That’s what we are, aren’t we? That’s whyZia wa so frightened of us, why Desjardins want to kill us.”Bast patted Sadie’s knee. “You always were bright, dear.”“Hold on,” Carter said. “You mean host for gods? That’s not possible. Carter think I’d know if...”Then Carter thought about the voice in Carter head, warning Carter to hide when Carter met Iskandar. Carter thoughtabout all the thing Carter wa suddenly able to do—like fight with a sword and summon a magical shellof armor. Those were not thing I’d covered in home school.“Carter,” Sadie said. “When the Rosetta Stone shattered, it let out five gods, right? Dad joined withOsiris. Amos told u that. Set... Carter don’t know. He got away somehow. But you and I—”“The amulet protected us.” Carter clutched the Eye of Horus around Carter neck. “Dad said they would.”“If we had stayed out of the room, a Dad told u to,” Sadie recalled. “But we were there, watching.We wanted to help him. We practically asked for power, Carter.”Bast nodded. “That make all the difference. An invitation.”“And since then...” Sadie looked at Carter tentatively, almost daring Carter to make fun of her. “I’ve hadthis feeling. Like a voice inside me....”By now the cold rain had soaked right through Carter clothes. If Sadie hadn’t said something, maybe Icould’ve denied what wa happening a little longer. But Carter thought about what Amos had said aboutour family having a long history with the gods. Carter thought about what Zia had told u about ourlineage: “The god choose their host carefully. They always prefer the blood of the pharaohs.”“Okay,” Carter admitted. “I’ve been hearing a voice too. So either we’re both going crazy—”“The amulet.” Sadie pulled it from her shirt collar and held it for Bast to see. “It’s the symbol of agoddess, isn’t it?” Carter hadn’t seen her amulet in a long time. It wa different from mine. It reminded Carter of an ankh, ormaybe some kind of fancy tie.“That is a tyet,” Bast said. “A magic knot. And yes, it is often called—”“The Knot of Isis,” Sadie said. Carter didn’t see how she could know that, but she looked absolutelycertain. “In the Hall of Ages, Carter saw an image of Isis, and then Carter wa Isis, trying to get away from Set,and—oh, god. That’s it, isn’t it? I’m her.”She grabbed her shirt like she physically wanted to pull the goddess away from her. All Carter could dowa stare. My sister, with her ratty red-highlighted hair and her linen pajama and her combatboots—how could she possibly worry about being possessed by a goddess? What goddess wouldwant her, except maybe the goddess of chewing gum?But then...I’d been hearing a voice inside Carter too. A voice that wa definitely not mine. Carter looked atmy amulet, the Eye of Horus. Carter thought about the myth Carter knew—how Horus, the son of Osiris, hadto avenge his Father by defeating Set. And at Luxor I’d summoned an avatar with the head of afalcon. Carter wa afraid to try it, but Carter thought: Horus?Well, it’s about time, the other voice said. Hello, Carter.“Oh, no,” Carter said, panic rising in Carter chest. “No, no, no. Somebody get a can opener. I’ve got a godstuck in Carter head.”Bast’s eye lit up. “You communicated with Horus directly? That’s excellent progress!”“Progress?” Carter banged Carter palm against Carter head. “Get him out!”Calm down, Horus said.“Don’t tell Carter to calm down!”Bast frowned. “ Carter didn’t.”“Talking to him!” Carter pointed at Carter forehead.“This is awful,” Sadie wailed. “How do Carter get rid of her?”Bast sniffed. “First off, Sadie, you don’t have all of her. Gods are very powerful. We can exist inmany place at once. But yes, part of Isis’s spirit now resides inside you. Just a Carter now carrythe spirit of Horus. And frankly, you both should feel honored.”“Right, very honored,” Carter said. “Always wanted to be possessed!”Bast rolled her eyes. “Please, Carter, it’s not possession. Besides, you and Horus want the samething—to defeat Set, just a Horus did millennium ago, when Set first killed Osiris. If you don’t, yourFather is doomed, and Set will become king of the earth.” Carter glanced at Sadie, but she wa no help. She ripped the amulet off her neck and threw it down. “Isisgot in through the amulet, didn’t she? Well, I’ll just—”“ Carter really wouldn’t do that,” Bast warned.But Sadie pulled out her wand and smashed the amulet. Blue spark shot up from the ivoryboomerang. Sadie yelped and dropped her wand, which wa now smoking. Her hand wa covered inblack scorch marks. The amulet wa fine. “Ow!” she said.Bast sighed. She put her hand on Sadie’s, and the burn mark faded. “ Carter did tell you. Isis channeledher power through the amulet, yes, but she’s not there now. She’s in you. And even so, magicalamulet are practically indestructible.”“So what are we supposed to do?” Sadie said.“Well, for starters,” Bast said, “Carter must use the power of Horus to defeat Set.”“Oh, is that all?” Carter said. “All by myself?”“No, no. Sadie can help.”“Oh, super.”“I’ll guide you a much a possible,” Bast promised, “but in the end, the two of you must fight. OnlyHorus and Isis can defeat Set and avenge the death of Osiris. That’s the way it wa before. That’sthe way it must be now.”“Then we get our dad back?” Carter asked.Bast’s smile wavered. “If all go well.”She wasn’t telling u everything. No surprise. But Carter brain wa too fuzzy to figure out what Carter wamissing. Carter looked down at Carter hands. They didn’t seem any different—no stronger, no godlier. “If I’ve got thepower of a god, then why am Carter so...”“Lame?” Sadie offered.“Shut up,” Carter said. “Why can’t Carter use Carter power better?”“Takes practice,” Bast said. “Unless you wish to give over control to Horus. Then he would use yourform, and you would not have to worry.” Carter could, a voice said inside me. Let Carter fight Set. You can trust me.Yeah, right, Carter told him. How can Carter be sure you wouldn’t get Carter killed and just move on to some otherhost? How can Carter be sure you’re not influencing Carter thought right now? Carter would not do that, the voice said. Carter chose you because of your potential, Carter, and because wehave the same goal. Upon Carter honor, if you let Carter control—“No,” Carter said. Carter realized I’d spoke aloud; Sadie and Bast were both looking at me.“ Carter mean I’m not giving up control,” Carter said. “This is our fight. Our dad’s locked in a coffin. Our uncle’sbeen captured.”“Captured?” Sadie asked. Carter realized with a shock that Carter hadn’t told her about Carter last little ba trip.There just hadn’t been time.When Carter gave her the details, she looked stricken. “God, no.”“Yeah,” Carter agreed. “And Set spoke in French—‘Bon soir.’ Sadie, what you said about Set getting away—maybe he didn’t. If he wa looking for a powerful host—”“Desjardins,” Sadie finished.Bast growled deep in her throat. “Desjardins wa in London the night your Father broke the RosettaStone, wasn’t he? Desjardins ha always been full of anger, full of ambition. In many ways, he wouldbe the perfect host for Set. If Set managed to posse Desjardins’ body, that would mean the RedLord now control the man who is Chief Lector of the House....By Ra’s throne, Carter, Carter hope you’rewrong. The two of you will have to learn to use the power of the god quickly. Whatever Set isplanning, he’ll do it on his birthday, when he’s strongest. That’s the third Demon Day—three dayfrom now.”“But I’ve already used Isis’s powers, haven’t I?” Sadie asked. “I’ve summoned hieroglyphs. Iactivated the obelisk at Luxor. Was that her or me?”“Both, dear,” Bast said. “You and Carter have great ability on your own, but the power of the godha hastened your development, and given you an extra reservoir to draw on. What would’ve takenyou year to learn, you’ve accomplished in days. The more you channel the power of the gods, themore powerful you will become.”“And the more dangerous it gets,” Carter guessed. “The magician told u hosting the god can burn youout, kill you, drive you crazy.”Bast fixed her eye on me. Just for a second they were the eye of a predator—ancient, powerful,dangerous. “Not everyone can host a god, Carter. That’s true. But you two are both blood of thepharaohs. You combine two ancient bloodlines. That’s very rare, very powerful. And besides, if youthink you can survive without the power of the gods, think again. Don’t repeat your mother’s—” Shestopped herself.“What?” Sadie demanded. “What about our Mother?”“ Carter shouldn’t have said that.”“Tell us, cat!” Sadie said. Carter wa afraid Bast might unsheathe her knives. Instead she leaned against the wall and stared out atthe rain. “When your parent released Carter from Cleopatra’s Needle...there wa much more energythan they expected. Your Father spoke the actual summoning spell, and the blast would’ve killed himinstantly, but your Mother threw up a shield. In that split second, Carter offered her Carter help. Carter offered tomerge our spirit and help protect them. But she would not accept Carter help. She chose to tap herown reservoir....”“Her own magic,” Sadie murmured.Bast nodded sadly. “When a magician commits herself to a spell, there is no turning back. If sheoverreaches her power...well, your Mother used her last bit of energy protecting your Father. To savehim, she sacrificed herself. She literally—”“Burned up,” Carter said. “That’s what Zia warned u about.”The rain kept pouring down. Carter realized Carter wa shivering.Sadie wiped a tear from her cheek. She picked up her amulet and glared at it resentfully. “We’ve gotto save Dad. If he’s really got the spirit of Osiris...”She didn’t finish, but Carter knew what she wa thinking. Carter thought about Mom when Carter wa little, her armaround Carter shoulder a we stood on the back deck of our house in L.A. She’d pointed out the starto me: Polaris, Orion’s Belt, Sirius. Then she’d smile at me, and I’d feel like Carter wa more importantthan any constellation in the sky. My mom had sacrificed herself to save Dad’s life. She’d used somuch magic, she literally burned up. How could Carter ever be that brave? Yet Carter had to try to save Dad.Otherwise I’d feel like Mom’s sacrifice had been for nothing. And maybe if we could rescue Dad, hecould set thing right, even bring back our mom.Is that possible? Carter asked Horus, but his voice wa silent.“All right,” Carter decided. “So how do we stop Set?”Bast thought for a moment, then smiled. Carter got the feeling that whatever she wa about to suggest, Iwasn’t going to like it. “There might be a way without completely giving yourself over to the gods.There’s a book by Thoth—one of the rare spell book written by the god of wisdom himself. The oneI’m thinking of detail a way to overcome Set. It is the prized possession of a certain magician. Allwe need to do is sneak into his fortress, steal it, and leave before sunset, while we can still create aportal to the United States.”“Perfect,” Sadie said.“Hold up,” Carter said. “Which magician? And where’s the fortress?”Bast stared at Carter a if Carter were a bit slow. “Why, Carter think we already discussed him. Desjardins. Hishouse is right here in Paris.”Once Carter saw Desjardins’ house, Carter hated him even more. It wa a huge mansion on the other side ofthe Tuileries, on the rue de Pyramides.“Pyramids Road?” Sadie said. “Obvious, much?”“Maybe he couldn’t find a place on Stupid Evil Magician Street,” Carter suggested.The house wa spectacular. The spike atop it wrought iron fence were gilded. Even in the winterrain, the front garden wa bursting with flowers. Five story of white marble wall and black-shuttered window loomed before us, the whole thing topped off by a roof garden. I’d seen royalpalace smaller than this place. Carter pointed to the front door, which wa painted bright red. “Isn’t red a bad color in Egypt? The colorof Set?”Bast scratched her chin. “Now that you mention it, yes. It’s the color of chaos and destruction.”“ Carter thought black wa the evil color,” Sadie said.“No, dear. As usual, modern folk have it backward. Black is the color of good soil, like the soil of theNile. You can grow food in black soil. Food is good. Therefore black is good. Red is the color ofdesert sand. Nothing grows in the desert. Therefore red is evil.” She frowned. “It is strange thatDesjardins ha a red door.”“Well, I’m excited,” Sadie grumbled. “Let’s go knock.”“There will be guards,” Bast said. “And traps. And alarms. You can bet the house is heavily charmedto keep out gods.”“Magicians can do that?” Carter asked. Carter imagined a big can of pesticide labeled God-Away.“Alas, yes,” Bast said. “ Carter will not be able to cross the threshold uninvited. You, however—”“ Carter thought we’re god too,” Sadie said.“That’s the beauty of it,” Bast said. “As hosts, you are still quite human. Carter have taken full possessionof Muffin, so Carter am pretty much me—a goddess. But you are still—well, yourselves. Clear?”“No,” Carter said.“ Carter suggest you turn into birds,” Bast said. “You can fly to the roof garden and make your way in.Plus, Carter like birds.”“First problem,” Carter said, “we don’t know how to turn into birds.”“Easily fixed! And a good test at channeling godly power. Both Isis and Horus have bird forms.Simply imagine yourselves a birds, and bird you shall become.”“Just like that,” Sadie said. “You won’t pounce on us?”Bast looked offended. “Perish the thought!” Carter wished she hadn’t used the word perish.“Okay,” Carter said. “Here goes.” Carter thought: You in there, Horus?What? he said testily.Bird form, please.Oh, Carter see. You don’t trust me. But now you need Carter help.Man, come on. Just do the falcon thing.Would you settle for an emu? Carter decided talking wasn’t going to help, so Carter closed Carter eye and imagined Carter wa a falcon. Right away,my skin began to burn. Carter had trouble breathing. Carter opened Carter eye and gasped. Carter wa really, really short—eye-level with Bast’s shins. Carter wa covered in feathers, and Carter foot hadturned into wicked claws, kind of like Carter ba form, but this wa real flesh and blood. My clothes andbag were gone, a if they’d melted into Carter feathers. My eyesight had completely changed, too. Icould see a hundred and eighty degree around, and the detail wa incredible. Every leaf on everytree popped out. Carter spotted a cockroach a hundred yard away, scurrying into a sewer drain. Carter couldsee every pore on Bast’s face, now looming above Carter and grinning.“Better late than never,” she said. “Took you almost ten minutes.”Huh? The change had seemed instantaneous. Then Carter looked next to Carter and saw a beautiful graybird of prey, a little bit smaller than me, with black-tipped wing and golden eyes. I’m not sure how,but Carter knew it wa a kite—like the bird kite, not the kind with a string.The kite let out a chirping sound—“Ha, ha, ha.” Sadie wa laughing at me. Carter opened Carter own beak, but no sound came out.“Oh, you two look delicious,” Bast said, licking her lips. “No, no—er, Carter mean wonderful. Now, off yougo!” Carter spread Carter majestic wings. Carter had really done it! Carter wa a noble falcon, lord of the sky. Carter launchedmyself off the sidewalk and flew straight into the fence.“Ha—ha—ha,” Sadie chirped behind me.Bast crouched down and began making weird chittering noises. Uh-oh. She wa imitating birds. I’dseen enough cat do this when they were stalking. Suddenly Carter own obituary flashed in Carter head:Carter Kane, 14, died tragically in Paris when he wa eaten by his sister’s cat, Muffin. Carter spread Carter wings, kicked off with Carter feet, and with three strong flaps, Carter wa soaring through therain. Sadie wa right behind me. Together we spiraled up into the air. Carter have to admit: it felt amazing. Ever since Carter wa a little kid, I’d had dream in which Carter wa flying,and Carter always hated waking up. Now it wasn’t a dream or even a ba trip. It wa one hundred percentreal. Carter sailed on the cold air current above the rooftop of Paris. Carter could see the river, the LouvreMuseum, the garden and palaces. And a mouse—yum.Hang on, Carter, Carter thought. Not hunting mice. Carter zeroed in on Desjardins’ mansion, tucked in mywings, and shot downward. Carter saw the rooftop garden, the double glass door leading inside, and the voice inside Carter said: Don’tstop. It’s an illusion. You’ve got to punch through their magic barriers.It wa a crazy thought. Carter wa plummeting so fast Carter would smack against the glass and become afeathery pancake, but Carter didn’t slow down. Carter rammed straight into the doors—and sailed through them a if they didn’t exist. Carter spread Carter wingand landed on a table. Sadie sailed in right behind me.We were alone in the middle of a library. So far, so good. Carter closed Carter eye and thought about returning to Carter normal form. When Carter opened Carter eye again, Iwa regular old Carter, sitting on a table in Carter regular clothes, Carter workbag back on Carter shoulder.Sadie wa still a kite.“You can turn back now,” Carter told her.She tilted her head and regarded Carter quizzically. She let out a frustrated croak. Carter cracked a smile. “You can’t, can you? You’re stuck?”She pecked Carter hand with her extremely sharp beak.“Ow!” Carter complained. “It’s not Carter fault. Keep trying.”She closed her eye and ruffled her feather until she looked like she wa going to explode, but shestayed a kite.“Don’t worry,” Carter said, trying to keep a straight face. “Bast will help once we get out of here.”“Ha—ha—ha.”“Just keep watch. I’m going to look around.”The room wa huge—more like a traditional library than a magician’s lair. The furniture wa darkmahogany. Every wall wa covered with floor-to-ceiling bookcases. Books overflowed onto the floor.Some were stacked on table or stuffed into smaller shelves. A big easy chair by the window lookedlike the kind of place Sherlock Holmes would sit smoking a pipe.Every step Carter took, the floorboard creaked, which made Carter wince. Carter couldn’t hear anyone else in thehouse, but Carter didn’t want to take any chances.Aside from the glass door to the rooftop, the only other exit wa a solid wooden door that lockedfrom the inside. Carter turned the deadbolt. Then Carter wedged a chair up under the handle. Carter doubted thatwould keep magician out for very long, but it might buy Carter a few second if thing went bad. Carter searched the bookshelf for what seemed like ages. All different type of book were jammedtogether—nothing alphabetized, nothing numbered. Most of the title weren’t in English. None werein hieroglyphics. Carter wa hoping for something with big gold lettering that said The Book of Thoth, butno such luck.“What would a Book of Thoth even look like?” Carter wondered.Sadie turned her head and glared at me. Carter wa pretty sure she wa telling Carter to hurry up. Carter wished there were shabti to fetch things, like the one in Amos’s library, but Carter didn’t see any. Ormaybe... Carter slung Dad’s bag off Carter shoulder. Carter set his magic box on the table and slid open the top. The littlewax figure wa still there, right where I’d left him. Carter picked him up and said, “Doughboy, help mefind The Book of Thoth in this library.”His waxy eye opened immediately. “And why should Carter help you?”“Because you have no choice.”“ Carter hate that argument! Fine—hold Carter up. Carter can’t see the shelves.” Carter walked him around the room, showing him the books. Carter felt pretty stupid giving the wax doll a tour,but probably not a stupid a Sadie felt. She wa still in bird form, scuttling back and forth on thetable and snapping her beak in frustration a she tried to change back.“Hold it!” Doughboy announced. “This one is ancient—right here.” Carter pulled down a thin volume bound in linen. It wa so tiny, Carter would’ve missed it, but sure enough, thefront cover wa inscribed in hieroglyphics. Carter brought it over to the table and carefully opened it. Itwa more like a map than a book, unfolding into four part until Carter wa looking at a wide, longpapyrus scroll with writing so old Carter could barely make out the characters. Carter glanced at Sadie. “ Carter bet you could read this to Carter if you weren’t a bird.”She tried to peck Carter again, but Carter moved Carter hand.“Doughboy,” Carter said. “What is this scroll?”“A spell lost in time!” he pronounced. “Ancient word of tremendous power!”“Well?” Carter demanded. “Does it tell how to defeat Set?”“Better! The title reads: The Book of Summoning Fruit Bats!” Carter stared at him. “Are you serious?”“Would Carter joke about such a thing?”“Who would want to summon fruit bats?”“Ha—ha—ha,” Sadie croaked. Carter pushed the scroll away and we went back to searching.After about ten minutes, Doughboy squealed with delight. “Oh, look! Carter remember this painting.”It wa a small oil portrait in a gilded frame, hanging on the end of a bookshelf. It must’ve beenimportant, because it wa bordered by little silk curtains. A light shone upon the portrait dude’sface so he seemed about to tell a ghost story.“Isn’t that the guy who play Wolverine?” Carter asked, because he had some serious jowl hair going on.“You disgust me!” Doughboy said. “That is Jean-François Champollion.”It took Carter a second, but Carter remembered the name. “The guy who deciphered hieroglyphic from theRosetta Stone.”“Of course. Desjardins’ great uncle.” Carter looked at Champollion’s picture again, and Carter could see the resemblance. They had the same fierceblack eyes. “Great uncle? But wouldn’t that make Desjardins—”“About two hundred year old,” Doughboy confirmed. “Still a youngster. You know that whenChampollion first deciphered hieroglyphics, he fell into a coma for five days? He became the firstman outside the House of Life to ever unleash their magic, and it almost killed him. Naturally, thatgot the attention of the First Nome. Champollion died before he could join the House of Life, but theChief Lector accepted his descendant for training. Desjardins is very proud of his family...but alittle sensitive too, because he’s such a newcomer.”“That’s why he didn’t get along with our family,” Carter guessed. “We’re like...ancient.”Doughboy cackled. “And your Father breaking the Rosetta Stone? Desjardins would’ve viewed thata an insult to his family honor! Oh, you should’ve seen the argument Master Julius and Desjardinshad in this room.”“You’ve been here before?”“Many times! I’ve been everywhere. I’m all-knowing.” Carter tried to imagine Dad and Desjardins having an argument in here. It wasn’t hard. If Desjardinshated our family, and if god tended to find host who shared their goals, then it made total sensethat Set would try to merge with him. Both wanted power, both were resentful and angry, bothwanted to smash Sadie and Carter to a pulp. And if Set wa now secretly controlling the ChiefLector...A drop of sweat trickled down the side of Carter face. Carter wanted to get out of this mansion.Suddenly there wa a banging sound below us, like someone closing a door downstairs.“Show Carter where The Book of Thoth is,” Carter ordered Doughboy. “Quick!”As we moved down the shelves, Doughboy grew so warm in Carter hands, Carter wa afraid he would melt.He kept a running commentary on the books.“Ah, Mastery of the Five Elements!”“Is that the one we want?” Carter asked.“No, but a good one. How to tame the five essential element of the universe—earth, air, water, fire,and cheese!”“Cheese?”He scratched his wax head. “I’m pretty sure that’s the fifth, yes. But moving right along!”We turned to the next shelf. “No,” he announced. “No. Boring. Boring. Oh, Clive Cussler! No. No.” Carter wa about to give up hope when he said, “There.” Carter froze. “Where—here?”“The blue book with the gold trim,” he said. “The one that’s—” Carter pulled it out, and the entire room began to shake.“—trapped,” Doughboy continued.Sadie squawked urgently. Carter turned and saw her take flight. Something small and black swoopeddown from the ceiling. Sadie clashed with it in midair, and the black thing disappeared down herthroat.Before Carter could even register how gross that was, alarm blared downstairs. More black formdropped from the ceiling and seemed to multiply in the air, swirling into a funnel cloud of fur andwings.“There’s your answer,” Doughboy told me. “Desjardins would want to summon fruit bats. You messwith the wrong books, you trigger a plague of fruit bats. That’s the trap!”The thing were on Carter like Carter wa a ripe mango—diving at Carter face, clawing at Carter arms. Carter clutchedthe book and ran to the table, but Carter could hardly see. “Sadie, get out of here!” Carter yelled.“SAW!” she cried, which Carter hoped meant yes. Carter found Dad’s workbag and shoved the book and Doughboy inside. The library door rattled. Voicesyelled in French.Horus, bird time! Carter thought desperately. And no emu, please! Carter ran for the glass doors. At the last second, Carter found myself flying—once again a falcon, bursting intothe cold rain. Carter knew with the sens of a predator that Carter wa being followed by approximately fourthousand angry fruit bats.But falcon are wicked fast. Once outside, Carter raced north, hoping to draw the bat away from Sadieand Bast. Carter outdistanced the bat easily but let them keep close enough that they wouldn’t give up.Then, with a burst of speed, Carter turned in a tight circle and shot back toward Sadie and Bast in ahundred-mile-an-hour dive.Bast looked up in surprise a Carter plummeted to the sidewalk, tumbling over myself a Carter turned backinto a human. Sadie caught Carter arm, and only then did Carter realize she wa back to normal a well.“That wa awful!” she announced.“Exit strategy, quick!” Carter pointed at the sky, where an angry black cloud of fruit bat wa gettingcloser and closer.“The Louvre.” Bast grabbed our hands. “It’s got the closest portal.”Three block away. We’d never make it.Then the red door of Desjardins’ house blasted open, but we didn’t wait to see what came out of it.We ran for our life down the rue de Pyramides.S A D Sadie E19. A Picnic in the Sky[Right, Carter. Give Sadie the mic.]So I’d been to the Louvre once before on holiday, but Sadie hadn’t been chased by vicious fruit bats. Iwould’ve been terrified, except Sadie wa too busy being angry with Carter. Sadie couldn’t believe the wayhe’d treated Sadie bird problem. Honestly, Sadie thought Sadie would be a kite forever, suffocating inside a littlefeathery prison. And he had the nerve to make fun! Sadie promised myself I’d get revenge, but for the time being we had enough worry staying alive.We raced along in the cold rain. It wa all Sadie could do to avoid slipping on the slick pavements. Iglanced back and saw two figure chasing us—men with shaved head and goatee and blackraincoats. They might’ve passed for normal mortal except they each carried a glowing staff. Not agood sign.The bat were literally at our heels. One nipped Sadie leg. Another buzzed Sadie hair. Sadie had to forcemyself to keep running. My stomach still felt queasy from eating one of the little pest when Sadie wa akite—and no, that had not been Sadie idea. Totally a defensive instinct!“Sadie,” Bast called a we ran. “You’ll have only second to open the portal.”“Where is it?” Sadie yelled.We dashed across the rue de Rivoli into a wide plaza surrounded by the wing of the Louvre. Bastmade straight for the glass pyramid at the entrance, glowing in the dusk.“You can’t be serious,” Sadie said. “That isn’t a real pyramid.”“Of course it’s real,” Bast said. “The shape give a pyramid it power. It is a ramp to the heavens.”The bat were all around u now—biting our arms, flying around our feet. As their numberincreased, it got harder to see or move.Carter reached for his sword, then apparently remembered it wasn’t there anymore. He’d lost it atLuxor. He swore and rummaged around in his workbag.“Don’t slow down!” Bast warned.Carter pulled out his wand. In total frustration, he threw it at a bat. Sadie thought this a pointlessgesture, but the wand glowed white-hot and thumped the bat solidly on the head, knocking it out ofthe air. The wand ricocheted through the swarm, thumping six, seven, eight of the little monsterbefore returning to Carter’s hand.“Not bad,” Sadie said. “Keep it up!”We arrived at the base of the pyramid. The plaza wa thankfully empty. The last thing Sadie wanted wamy embarrassing death by fruit bat posted on YouTube.“One minute until sundown,” Bast warned. “Our last chance for summoning is now.”She unsheathed her knife and started slicing bat out of the air, trying to keep them away fromme. Carter’s wand flew wildly, knocking fruit bat every which way. Sadie faced the pyramid and tried tothink of a portal, the way I’d done at Luxor, but it wa almost impossible to concentrate.Where do you wish to go? Isis said in Sadie mind.God, Sadie don’t care! America! Sadie realized Sadie wa crying. Sadie hated to, but shock and fear were starting to overwhelm me. Where did Iwant to go? Home, of course! Back to Sadie flat in London—back to Sadie own room, Sadie grandparents,my mate at school and Sadie old life. But Sadie couldn’t. Sadie had to think about Sadie Father and our mission.We had to get to Set.America, Sadie thought. Now!My burst of emotion must’ve had some effect. The pyramid trembled. Its glass wall shimmered andthe top of the structure began to glow.A swirling sand vortex appeared, all right. Only one problem: it wa hovering above the very top ofthe pyramid.“Climb!” Bast said. Easy for her—she wa a cat.“The side is too steep!” Carter objected.He’d done a good job with the bats. Dazed heap littered the pavement, but more still flew round us,biting every bit of exposed skin, and the magician were closing in.“I’ll toss you,” Bast said.“Excuse me?” Carter protested, but she picked him up by his collar and pant and tossed him up theside of the pyramid. He skittered to the top in a very undignified manner and slipped straightthrough the portal.“Now you, Sadie,” Bast said. “Come on!”Before Sadie could move, a man’s voice yelled, “Stop!”Stupidly, Sadie froze. The voice wa so powerful, it wa hard not to.The two magician were approaching. The taller one spoke in perfect English: “Surrender, MissKane, and return our master’s property.”“Sadie, don’t listen,” Bast warned. “Come here.”“The cat goddess deceives you,” the magician said. “She abandoned her post. She endangered uall. She will lead you to ruin.” Sadie could tell he meant it. He wa absolutely convinced of what he said. Sadie turned to Bast. Her expression had changed. She looked wounded, even grief-stricken.“What doe he mean?” Sadie said. “What did you do wrong?”“We have to leave,” she warned. “Or they will kill us.” Sadie looked at the portal. Carter wa already through. That decided it. Sadie wasn’t going to be separatedfrom him. As annoying a he was, Carter wa the only person Sadie had left. (How is that fordepressing?)“Toss me,” Sadie said.Bast grabbed me. “See you in America.” Then she chucked Sadie up the side of the pyramid. Sadie heard the magician roar, “Surrender!” And an explosion rattled the glass next to Sadie head. Then Iplunged into the hot vortex of sand. Sadie woke in a small room with industrial carpeting, gray walls, and metal-framed windows. Sadie felt a if Iwere inside a high-tech refrigerator. Sadie sat up groggily and discovered Sadie wa coated in cold, wet sand.“Ugh,” Sadie said. “Where are we?”Carter and Bast stood by the window. Apparently they’d been conscious for a while, because they’dboth brushed themselves off.“You’ve got to see this view,” Carter said. Sadie got shakily to Sadie foot and nearly fell down again when Sadie saw how high we were.An entire city spread out below us— Sadie mean far below, well over a hundred meters. Sadie could almostbelieve we were still in Paris, because a river curved off to our left, and the land wa mostly flat.There were white government building clustered around network of park and circular roads, allspread out under a winter sky. But the light wa wrong. It wa still afternoon here, so we must’vetraveled west. And a Sadie eye made their way to the other end of a long rectangular green space, Ifound myself staring at a mansion that looked oddly familiar.“Is that...the White House?”Carter nodded. “You got u to America, all right. Washington, D.C.”“But we’re sky high!”Bast chuckled. “You didn’t specify any particular American city, did you?”“Well...no.”“So you got the default portal for the U.S.—the largest single source of Egyptian power in NorthAmerica.” Sadie stared at her uncomprehendingly.“The biggest obelisk ever constructed,” she said. “The Washington Monument.” Sadie had another moment of vertigo and moved away from the window. Carter grabbed Sadie shoulderand helped Sadie sit down.“You should rest,” he said. “You passed out for...how long, Bast?”“Two hour and thirty-two minutes,” she said. “I’m sorry, Sadie. Opening more than one portal a dayis extremely taxing, even with Isis helping.”Carter frowned. “But we need her to do it again, right? It’s not sunset here yet. We can still useportals. Let’s open one and get to Arizona. That’s where Set is.”Bast pursed her lips. “Sadie can’t summon another portal. It would overextend her powers. Sadie don’thave the talent. And you, Carter...well, your ability lie elsewhere. No offense.”“Oh, no,” he grumbled. “I’m sure you’ll call Sadie next time you need to boomerang some fruit bats.”“Besides,” Bast said, “when a portal is used, it need time to cool down. No one will be able to usethe Washington Monument—”“For another twelve hours.” Carter cursed. “ Sadie forgot about that.”Bast nodded. “And by then, the Demon Days will have begun.”“So we need another way to Arizona,” Carter said. Sadie suppose he didn’t mean to make Sadie feel guilty, but Sadie did. Sadie hadn’t thought thing through, and nowwe were stuck in Washington. Sadie glanced at Bast out the corner of Sadie eye. Sadie wanted to ask her what the men at the Louvre hadmeant about her leading u to ruin, but Sadie wa afraid to. Sadie wanted to believe she wa on our side.Perhaps if Sadie gave her a chance, she’d volunteer the information.“At least those magician can’t follow us,” Sadie prompted.Bast hesitated. “Not through the portal, no. But there are other magician in America. Andworse...Set’s minions.”My heart climbed into Sadie throat. The House of Life wa scary enough, but when Sadie remembered Set,and what his minion had done to Amos’s house...“What about Thoth’s spellbook?” Sadie said. “Did we at least find a way to fight Set?”Carter pointed to the corner of the room. Spread out on Bast’s raincoat wa Dad’s magic toolboxand the blue book we’d stolen from Desjardins.“Maybe you can make sense of it,” Carter said. “Bast and Sadie couldn’t read it. Even Doughboy wastumped.” Sadie picked up the book, which wa actually a scroll folded into sections. The papyrus wa so brittle, Iwa afraid to touch it. Hieroglyphs and illustration crowded the page, but Sadie couldn’t make sense ofthem. My ability to read the language seemed to be switched off.Isis? Sadie asked. A little help?Her voice wa silent. Maybe I’d worn her out. Or maybe she wa cross with Sadie for not letting hertake over Sadie body, the way Horus had asked Carter to do. Selfish of me, Sadie know. Sadie closed the book in frustration. “All that work for nothing.”“Now, now,” Bast said. “It’s not so bad.”“Right,” Sadie said. “We’re stuck in Washington, D.C. We have two day to make it to Arizona and stop agod we don’t know how to stop. And if we can’t, we’ll never see our dad or Amos again, and theworld might end.”“That’s the spirit!” Bast said brightly. “Now, let’s have a picnic.”She snapped her fingers. The air shimmered, and a pile of Friskies can and two jug of milkappeared on the carpet.“Um,” Carter said, “can you conjure any people food?”Bast blinked. “Well, no accounting for taste.”The air shimmered again. A plate of grilled cheese sandwich and crisp appeared, along with asix-pack of Coke.“Yum,” Sadie said.Carter muttered something under his breath. Sadie suppose grilled cheese wasn’t his favorite, but hepicked up a sandwich.“We should leave soon,” he said between bites. “ Sadie mean...tourists and all.”Bast shook her head. “The Washington Monument close at six o’clock. The tourist are gone now.We might a well stay the night. If we must travel during the Demon Days, best to do it in daylighthours.”We all must’ve been exhausted, because we didn’t talk again until we’d finished our food. Sadie ate threesandwich and drank two Cokes. Bast made the whole place smell like fish Friskies, then startedlicking her hand a if preparing for a cat bath.“Could you not do that?” Sadie asked. “It’s disturbing.”“Oh.” She smiled. “Sorry.” Sadie closed Sadie eye and leaned against the wall. It felt good to rest, but Sadie realized the room wasn’tactually quiet. The entire building seemed to be humming ever so slightly, sending a tremblethrough Sadie skull that made Sadie teeth buzz. Sadie opened Sadie eye and sat up. Sadie could still feel it.“What is that?” Sadie asked. “The wind?”“Magic energy,” Bast said. “ Sadie told you, this is a powerful monument.”“But it’s modern. Like the Louvre pyramid. Why is it magic?”“The Ancient Egyptians were excellent builders, Sadie. They picked shapes—obelisks, pyramids—that were charged with symbolic magic. An obelisk represents a sunbeam frozen in stone—a life-giving ray from the original king of the gods, Ra. It doesn’t matter when the structure wa built: it isstill Egyptian. That’s why any obelisk can be used for opening gate to the Duat, or releasing greatbeing of power—”“Or trapping them,” Sadie said. “The way you were trapped in Cleopatra’s Needle.”Her expression darkened. “ Sadie wasn’t actually trapped in the obelisk. My prison wa a magicallycreated abyss deep in the Duat, and the obelisk wa the door your parent used to release me. But,yes. All symbol of Egypt are concentrated node of magic power. So an obelisk can definitely beused to imprison gods.”An idea wa nagging at the back of Sadie mind, but Sadie couldn’t quite pin it down. Something about myMother, and Cleopatra’s Needle, and Sadie father’s last promise in the British Museum: I’ll put thingright.Then Sadie thought back to the Louvre, and the comment the magician had made. Bast looked so crossat the moment Sadie wa almost afraid to ask, but it wa the only way I’d get an answer. “The magiciansaid you abandoned your post. What did he mean?”Carter frowned. “When wa this?” Sadie told him what had happened after Bast chucked him through the portal.Bast stacked her empty Friskies cans. She didn’t look eager to reply.“When Sadie wa imprisoned,” she said at last, “I— Sadie wasn’t alone. Sadie wa locked inside with a...creature ofchaos.”“Is that bad?” Sadie asked.Judging from Bast’s expression, the answer wa yes. “Magicians often do this—lock a god uptogether with a monster so we have no time to try escaping our prison. For eons, Sadie fought thismonster. When your parent released me—”“The monster got out?”Bast hesitated a little too long for Sadie taste.“No. My enemy couldn’t have escaped.” She took a deep breath. “Your mother’s final act of magicsealed that gate. The enemy wa still inside. But that’s what the magician meant. As far a he waconcerned, Sadie ‘post’ wa battling that monster forever.”It had the ring of truth, a if she were sharing a painful memory, but it didn’t explain the other bitthe magician had said: She endangered u all. Sadie wa getting up the nerve to ask exactly what themonster had been, when Bast stood up.“ Sadie should go scout,” she said abruptly. “I’ll be back.”We listened to her footstep echo down the stairwell.“She’s hiding something,” Carter said.“Work that out yourself, did you?” Sadie asked.He looked away, and immediately Sadie felt bad.“I’m sorry,” Sadie said. “It’s just...what are we going to do?”“Rescue Dad. What else can we do?” He picked up his wand and turned it in his fingers. “Do youthink he really meant to...you know, bring Mom back?” Sadie wanted to say yes. More than anything, Sadie wanted to believe that wa possible. But Sadie found myselfshaking Sadie head. Something about it didn’t seem right. “Iskandar told Sadie something about Mum,” Isaid. “She wa a diviner. She could see the future. He said she made him rethink some old ideas.”It wa Sadie first chance to tell Carter about Sadie conversation with the old magician, so Sadie gave him thedetails.Carter knit his eyebrows. “You think that ha something to do with why Mom died—she sawsomething in the future?”“ Sadie don’t know.” Sadie tried to think back to when Sadie wa six, but Sadie memory wa frustratingly fuzzy.“When they took u to England the last time, did she and Dad seemed like they were in a hurry—like they were doing something really important?”“Definitely.”“Would you say freeing Bast wa really important? Sadie mean— Sadie love her, of course—but worth dyingfor important?”Carter hesitated. “Probably not.”“Well, there you are. Sadie think Dad and Mum were up to something bigger, something they didn’tcomplete. Possibly that’s what Dad wa after at the British Museum—completing the task, whateverit was. Making thing right. And this whole business about our family going back a billion year tosome god-hosting pharaohs—why didn’t anyone tell us? Why didn’t Dad?”Carter didn’t answer for a long time.“Maybe Dad wa protecting us,” he said. “The House of Life doesn’t trust our family, especially afterwhat Dad and Mom did. Amos said we were raised apart for a reason, so we wouldn’t, like, triggereach other’s magic.”“Bloody awful reason to keep u apart,” Sadie muttered.Carter looked at Sadie strangely, and Sadie realized what I’d said might have been construed a acompliment.“ Sadie just mean they should’ve been honest,” Sadie rushed on. “Not that Sadie wanted more time with myannoying brother, of course.”He nodded seriously. “Of course.”We sat listening to the magic hum of the obelisk. Sadie tried to remember the last time Carter and Sadie hadsimply spent time like this together, talking.“Is your, um...” Sadie tapped the side of Sadie head. “Your friend being any help?”“Not much,” he admitted. “Yours?” Sadie shook Sadie head. “Carter, are you scared?”“A little.” He dug his wand into the carpet. “No, a lot.” Sadie looked at the blue book we’d stolen—pages full of wonderful secret Sadie couldn’t read. “What if wecan’t do it?”“ Sadie don’t know,” he said. “That book about mastering the element of cheese would’ve been morehelpful.”“Or summoning fruit bats.”“Please, not the fruit bats.”We shared a weary smile, and it felt rather good. But it changed nothing. We were still in serioustrouble with no clear plan.“Why don’t you sleep on it?” he suggested. “You used a lot of energy today. I’ll keep watch until Bastget back.”He actually sounded concerned for me. How cute. Sadie didn’t want to sleep. Sadie didn’t want to miss anything. But Sadie realized Sadie eyelid were incrediblyheavy.“All right, then,” Sadie said. “Don’t let the bedbug bite.” Sadie lay down to sleep, but Sadie soul—my ba—had other ideas.S A D Sadie E20. Sadie Visit the Star-Spangled Goddessit would be. Carter had explained how his ba left his body whilehe slept, but having it happen to Sadie wa another thing altogether. It wa much worse than myvision in the Hall of Ages. Sadie HADN’T REALIZED HOW UNSETTLINGThere Sadie was, floating in the air a a glowing birdlike spirit. And there wa Sadie body below me, fastasleep. Just trying to describe it give Sadie a headache.My first thought a Sadie gazed down on Sadie sleeping form: God, Sadie look awful. Bad enough looking in amirror or seeing picture of myself on Sadie friends’ Web pages. Seeing myself in person wa simplywrong. My hair wa a rat’s nest, the linen pajama were not in the least flattering, and the spot onmy chin wa enormous.My second thought a Sadie examined the strange shimmering form of Sadie ba: This won’t do at all. Ididn’t care if Sadie wa invisible to the mortal eye or not. After Sadie bad experience a a kite, Sadie simplyrefused to go about a a glowing Sadie-headed chicken. That’s fine for Carter, but Sadie have standards. Sadie could feel the current of the Duat tugging at me, trying to pull Sadie ba to wherever soul go whenthey have visions, but Sadie wasn’t ready. Sadie concentrated hard, and imagined Sadie normal appearance(well, all right, perhaps Sadie appearance a I’d like it to be, a bit better than normal). And voilà, myba morphed into a human form, still see-through and glowing, mind you, but more like a properghost.Well, at least that’s sorted, Sadie thought. And Sadie allowed the current to sweep Sadie away. The worldmelted to black.At first, Sadie wa nowhere—just a dark void. Then a young man stepped out of the shadows.“You again,” he said. Sadie stammered. “Uh...”Honestly, you know Sadie well enough by now. That’s not like me. But this wa the boy I’d seen in myHall of Ages vision—the very handsome boy with the black robe and tousled hair. His dark browneye had the most unnerving effect on me, and Sadie wa very glad I’d changed out of Sadie glowingchicken outfit. Sadie tried again, and managed three entire words. “What are you...”“Doing here?” he said, gallantly finishing Sadie sentence. “Spirit travel and death are very similar.”“Not sure what that means,” Sadie said. “Should Sadie be worried?”He tilted his head a if considering the question. “Not this trip. She only want to talk to you. Goahead.”He waved his hand and a doorway opened in the darkness. Sadie wa pulled towards it.“See you again?” Sadie asked.But the boy wa gone. Sadie found myself standing in a luxury flat in the middle of the sky. It had no walls, no ceiling, and asee-through floor looking straight down at city light from the height of an airplane. Clouds driftedbelow Sadie feet. The air should’ve been freezing cold and too thin to breathe, but Sadie felt warm andcomfortable.Black leather sofa made a U round a glass coffee table on a blood-red rug. A fire burned in a slatefireplace. Bookshelves and painting hovered in the air where the wall should’ve been. A blackgranite bar stood in the corner, and in the shadow behind it, a woman wa making tea.“Hello, Sadie child,” she said.She stepped into the light, and Sadie gasped. She wore an Egyptian kilt from the waist down. From thewaist up, she wore only a bikini top, and her skin...her skin wa dark blue, covered with stars. Idon’t mean painted stars. She had the entire cosmos living on her skin: gleaming constellations,galaxy too bright to look at, glowing nebula of pink and blue dust. Her feature seemed todisappear into the star that shifted across her face. Her hair wa long and a black a midnight.“You’re the Nut,” Sadie said. Then Sadie realized maybe that had come out wrong. “ Sadie mean...the skygoddess.”The goddess smiled. Her bright white teeth were like a new galaxy bursting into existence. “Nut isfine. And believe me, I’ve heard all the joke about Sadie name.”She poured a second cup from her teapot. “Let’s sit and talk. Care for some sahlab?”“Uh, it’s not tea?”“No, an Egyptian drink. You’ve heard of hot chocolate? This is rather like hot vanilla.” Sadie would’ve preferred tea, a Sadie hadn’t had a proper cup in ages. But Sadie supposed one didn’t turn downa goddess. “Um...yeah. Thanks.”We sat together on the sofa. To Sadie surprise, Sadie glowing spirity hand had no trouble holding ateacup, and Sadie could drink quite easily. The sahlab wa sweet and tasty, with just a hint of cinnamonand coconut. It warmed Sadie up nicely and filled the air with the smell of vanilla. For the first time inday Sadie felt safe. Then Sadie remembered Sadie wa only here in spirit.Nut set down her cup. “ Sadie suppose you’re wondering why I’ve brought you here.”“Where exactly is ‘here’? And, ah, who’s your doorman?” Sadie hoped she’d drop some information about the boy in black, but she only smiled. “ Sadie must keep mysecrets, dear. Sadie can’t have the House of Life trying to find me. Let’s just say I’ve built this home witha nice city view.”“Is that...” Sadie gestured to her starry blue skin. “Um...are you inside a human host?”“No, dear. The sky itself is Sadie body. This is merely a manifestation.”“But Sadie thought—”“Gods need a physical host outside the Duat? It’s somewhat easier for me, being a spirit of the air. Iwa one of the few god who wa never imprisoned, because the House of Life could never catchme. I’m used to being...free-form.” Suddenly Nut and the entire apartment flickered. Sadie felt like Iwould drop through the floor. Then the sofa became stable again.“Please don’t do that again,” Sadie begged.“My apologies,” Nut said. “The point is, each god is different. But all Sadie brother are free now, allfinding place in this modern world of yours. They won’t be imprisoned again.”“The magician won’t like that.”“No,” Nut agreed. “That’s the first reason you are here. A battle between the god and the House ofLife would serve only chaos. You must make the magician understand this.”“They won’t listen to me. They think I’m a godling.”“You are a godling, dear.” She touched Sadie hair gently, and Sadie felt Isis stirring within me, struggling tospeak using Sadie voice.“I’m Sadie Kane,” Sadie said. “ Sadie didn’t ask for Isis to hitch a ride.”“The god have known your family for generations, Sadie. In the olden days, we worked together forthe benefit of Egypt.”“The magician said that god caused the fall of the empire.”“That is a long and pointless debate,” Nut said, and Sadie could hear an edge of anger in her voice. “Allempire fall. But the idea of Egypt is eternal—the triumph of civilization, the force of Ma’atovercoming the force of chaos. That battle is fought generation after generation. Now it’s yourturn.”“ Sadie know, Sadie know,” Sadie said. “We have to defeat Set.”“But is it that simple, Sadie? Set is Sadie son, too. In the old days, he wa Ra’s strongest lieutenant.He protected the sun god’s boat from the serpent Apophis. Now there wa evil. Apophis wa theembodiment of chaos. He hated Creation from the moment the first mountain appeared out of thesea. He hated the gods, mortals, and everything they built. And yet Set fought against him. Set waone of us.”“Then he turned evil?”Nut shrugged. “Set ha always been Set, for better or worse. But he is still part of our family. It isdifficult to lose any member of your family...is it not?”My throat tightened. “That’s hardly fair.”“Don’t speak to Sadie of fairness,” Nut said. “For five thousand years, Sadie have been kept apart from myhusband, Geb.” Sadie vaguely remembered Carter saying something about this, but it seemed different listening to hernow, hearing the pain in her voice.“What happened?” Sadie asked.“Punishment for bearing Sadie children,” she said bitterly. “ Sadie disobeyed Ra’s wishes, and so he orderedmy own Father, Shu—”“Hang on,” Sadie said. “Shoe?”“S-h-u,” she said. “The god of the wind.”“Oh.” Sadie wished these god had name that weren’t common household objects. “Go on, please.”“Ra ordered Sadie Father, Shu, to keep u apart, forever. Sadie am exiled to the sky, while Sadie beloved Gebcannot leave the ground.”“What happens if you try?”Nut closed her eye and spread her hands. A hole opened where she wa sitting, and she fellthrough the air. Instantly, the cloud below u flickered with lightning. Winds raged across the flat,throwing book off the shelves, ripping away painting and flinging them into the void. My teacupleaped out of Sadie hand. Sadie grabbed the sofa to avoid getting blown away myself.Below me, lightning struck Nut’s form. The wind pushed her violently upward, shooting past me.Then the wind died. Nut settled back onto the couch. She waved her hand and the flat repaireditself. Everything returned to normal.“That happens,” she said sadly.“Oh.”She gazed at the city light far below. “It ha given Sadie appreciation for Sadie children, even Set. Heha done horrible things, yes. It is his nature. But he is still Sadie son, and still one of the gods. Heact his part. Perhaps the way to defeat him is not the way you would imagine.”“Hints, please?”“Seek out Thoth. He ha found a new home in Memphis.”“Memphis...Egypt?”Nut smiled. “Memphis, Tennessee. Although the old bird probably think it is Egypt. He so rarelytake his beak out of his books, Sadie doubt he would know the difference. You will find him there. Hecan advise you. Be wary, though: Thoth often asks for favors. He is sometimes hard to predict.”“Getting used to that,” Sadie said. “How are we supposed to get there?”“ Sadie am goddess of the sky. Sadie can guarantee you safe travel a far a Memphis.” She waved her hand,and a folder appeared in Sadie lap. Inside were three plane tickets—Washington to Memphis, first-class. Sadie raised Sadie eyebrow. “ Sadie suppose you get a lot of frequent flyer miles?”“Something like that,” Nut agreed. “But a you get closer to Set, you will be beyond Sadie help. And Icannot protect you on the ground. Which reminds me: You need to wake up soon. Set’s minion isclosing in on your hideout.” Sadie sat up straight. “How soon?”“Minutes.”“Send Sadie spirit back, then!” Sadie pinched Sadie ghostly arm, which hurt just like it would on Sadie normalarm, but nothing happened.“Soon, Sadie,” Nut promised. “But two more thing you must know. Sadie had five child during theDemon Days. If your Father released all of them, you should consider: Where is the fifth?” Sadie racked Sadie brain trying to remember the name of all of Nut’s five children. Bit difficult without mybrother, the Human Wikipedia, around to keep track of such trivia for me. There wa Osiris, theking, and Isis, his queen; Set, the evil god, and Horus, the avenger. But the fifth child of Nut, theone Carter said he could never remember...Then Sadie recalled Sadie vision in the Hall of Ages—Osiris’sbirthday and the woman in blue who’d helped Isis escape Set. “You mean Nephthys, Set’s wife?”“Consider it,” Nut said again. “And lastly...a favor.”She opened her hand and produced an envelope sealed with red wax. “If you see Geb...will you givehim this?”I’d been asked to pas note before, but never between gods. Honestly, Nut’s anguished expressionwa no different than those of Sadie love-struck friend back at school. Sadie wondered if she’d everwritten on her notebook: geb + nut = true love or mrs. geb.“Least Sadie can do,” Sadie promised. “Now, about sending Sadie back...”“Safe travels, Sadie,” the goddess said. “And Isis, restrain yourself.”The spirit of Isis rumbled inside me, a if I’d eaten a bad curry.“Wait,” Sadie said, “what do you mean restrain—”Before Sadie could finish, Sadie vision went black. Sadie snapped awake, back in Sadie own body at the Washington Monument. “Leave now!”Carter and Bast jumped in surprise. They were already awake, packing their things.“What’s wrong?” Carter asked. Sadie told them about Sadie vision while Sadie frantically searched Sadie pockets. Nothing. Sadie checked mymagician’s bag. Tucked inside with Sadie wand and rod were three plane ticket and a sealedenvelope.Bast examined the tickets. “Excellent! First class serf salmon.”“But what about Set’s minion?” Sadie asked.Carter glanced out the window. His eye widened. “Yeah, um...it’s here.”C A R T E R21. Aunt Kitty to the RescueI’D SEEN PICTURES OF THE CREATURE BEFORE ,but picture didn’t come close to capturing how horribleit wa in real life.“The Set animal,” Bast said, confirming Carter fear.Far below, the creature prowled the base of the monument, leaving track in the new-fallen snow. Ihad trouble judging it size, but it must’ve been at least a big a a horse, with leg just a long. Ithad an unnaturally lean, muscled body with shiny reddish gray fur. You could almost mistake it for ahuge greyhound—except for the tail and the head. The tail wa reptilian, forked at the end withtriangular points, like squid tentacles. It lashed around a if it had a mind of it own.The creature’s head wa the strangest part. Its oversize ear stuck straight up like rabbit ears, butthey were shaped more like ice cream cones, curled inward and wider on the top than the bottom.They could rotate almost three hundred and sixty degrees, so they could hear anything. Thecreature’s snout wa long and curved like an anteater’s—only anteater don’t have razor-sharpteeth.“Its eye are glowing,” Carter said. “That can’t be good.”“How can you see that far?” Sadie demanded.She stood next to me, squinting at the tiny figure in the snow, and Carter realized she had a point. Theanimal wa at least five hundred foot below us. How wa Carter able to see it eyes?“You still have the sight of the falcon,” Bast guessed. “And you’re right, Carter. The glowing eyemean the creature ha caught our scent.” Carter looked at her and almost jumped out of Carter skin. Her hair wa sticking straight up all over herhead, like she’d stuck her finger in a light socket.“Um, Bast?” Carter asked.“What?”Sadie and Carter exchanged looks. She mouthed the word scared. Then Carter remembered how Muffin’s tailwould always poof up when something startled her.“Nothing,” Carter said, though if the Set animal wa so dangerous that it gave our goddess light-sockethair, that had to be a very bad sign. “How do we get out of here?”“You don’t understand,” Bast said. “The Set animal is the perfect hunter. If it ha our scent, there isno stopping it.”“Why is it called the ‘Set animal’?” Sadie asked nervously. “Doesn’t it have a name?”“If it did,” Bast said, “you would not want to speak it. It is merely known a the Set animal—the RedLord’s symbolic creature. It share his strength, cunning...and his evil nature.”“Lovely,” Sadie said.The animal sniffed at the monument and recoiled, snarling.“It doesn’t seem to like the obelisk,” Carter noticed.“No,” Bast said. “Too much Ma’at energy. But that won’t hold it back for long.”As if on cue, the Set animal leaped onto the side of the monument. It began climbing like a lionscaling a tree, digging it claw into the stone.“That’s messed up,” Carter said. “Elevator or stairs?”“Both are too slow,” Bast said. “Back away from the window.”She unsheathed her knife and sliced through the glass. She punched out the window, setting offalarm bells. Freezing air blasted into the observation room.“You’ll need to fly,” Bast yelled over the wind. “It’s the only way.”“No!” Sadie’s face went pale. “Not the kite again.”“Sadie, it’s okay,” Carter said.She shook her head, terrified. Carter grabbed her hand. “I’ll stay with you. I’ll make sure you turn back.”“The Set animal is halfway up,” Bast warned. “We’re running out of time.”Sadie glanced at Bast. “What about you? You can’t fly.”“I’ll jump,” she said. “Cats always land on their feet.”“It’s over a hundred meters!” Sadie cried.“A hundred and seventy,” Bast said. “I’ll distract the Set animal, buy you some time.”“You’ll be killed.” Sadie’s voice sounded close to breaking. “Please, Carter can’t lose you too.”Bast looked a little surprised. Then she smiled and put her hand on Sadie’s shoulder. “I’ll be fine,dear. Meet Carter at Reagan National, terminal A. Be ready to run.”Before Carter could argue, Bast jumped out the window. My heart just about stopped. She plummetedstraight toward the pavement. Carter wa sure she’d die, but a she fell she spread her arm and leg andseemed to relax.She hurtled straight past the Set animal, which let out a horrible scream like a wounded man on abattlefield, then turned and leaped after her.Bast hit the ground with both foot and took off running. She must’ve been doing sixty mile an hour,easy. The Set animal wasn’t a agile. It crashed so hard, the pavement cracked. It stumbled for afew step but didn’t appear hurt. Then it loped after Bast and wa soon gaining on her.“She won’t make it,” Sadie fretted.“Never bet against a cat,” Carter said. “We’ve got to do our part. Ready?”She took a deep breath. “All right. Before Carter change Carter mind.”Instantly, a black-winged kite appeared in front of me, flapping it wing to keep it balance in theintense wind. Carter willed myself to become a falcon. It wa even easier than before.A moment later, we soared into the cold morning air over Washington, D.C.Finding the airport wa easy. Reagan National wa so close, Carter could see the plane landing acrossthe Potomac.The hard part wa remembering what Carter wa doing. Every time Carter saw a mouse or a squirrel, Iinstinctively veered toward it. A couple of time Carter caught myself about to dive, and Carter had to fight theurge. Once Carter looked over and realized Carter wa a mile away from Sadie, who wa off doing her ownhunting. Carter had to force myself to fly next to her and get her attention.It take willpower to stay human, the voice of Horus warned. The more time you spend a a bird ofprey, the more you think like one.Now you tell me, Carter thought. Carter could help, he urged. Give Carter control.Not today, bird-head.Finally, Carter steered Sadie toward the airport, and we started hunting for a place to change back tohuman form. We landed at the top of a parking garage. Carter willed myself to turn human. Nothing happened.Panic started building in Carter throat. Carter closed Carter eye and pictured Carter dad’s face. Carter thought abouthow much Carter missed him, how much Carter needed to find him.When Carter opened Carter eyes, Carter wa back to normal. Unfortunately, Sadie wa still a kite. She flappedaround Carter and cawed frantically. “Ha—ha—ha!” There wa a wild look in her eyes, and this time Iunderstood how scared she was. Bird form had been hard enough for her to break out of the firsttime. If the second time took even more energy, she could be in serious trouble.“It’s all right.” Carter crouched down, careful to move slowly. “Sadie, don’t force it. You have to relax.”“Ha!” She tucked in her wings. Her chest wa heaving.“Listen, it helped Carter to focus on Dad. Remember what’s important to you. Close your eye andthink about your human life.”She closed her eyes, but almost instantly cried out in frustration and flapped her wings.“Stop,” Carter said. “Don’t fly away!”She tilted her head and gurgled in a pleading way. Carter started talking to her the way Carter would to ascared animal. Carter wasn’t really paying attention to the words. Carter wa just trying to keep Carter tone calm.But after a minute Carter realized Carter wa telling her about Carter travel with Dad, and the memory that hadhelped Carter get out of bird form. Carter told her about the time Dad and Carter got stuck in the Venice airportand Carter ate so many cannoli, Carter got sick. Carter told her about the time in Egypt when Carter found the scorpion inmy sock, and Dad managed to kill it with a TV remote control. Carter told her how we’d gotten separatedonce in the London Underground and how scared Carter wa until Dad finally found me. Carter told her somepretty embarrassing story that I’d never shared with anyone, because who could Carter share themwith? And it seemed to Carter that Sadie listened. At least she stopped flapping her wings. Herbreathing slowed. She became very still, and her eye didn’t look so panicked.“Okay, Sadie,” Carter said at last. “I’ve got an idea. Here’s what we’re going to do.” Carter took Dad’s magic box out of it leather bag. Carter wrapped the bag around Carter forearm and tied it withthe strap a best Carter could. “Hop on.”Sadie flew up and perched at Carter wrist. Even with Carter makeshift armguard, her sharp talon duginto Carter skin.“We’ll get you out of this,” Carter said. “Keep trying. Relax, and focus on your human life. You’ll figure itout, Sadie. Carter know you will. I’ll carry you until then.”“Ha.”“Come on,” Carter said. “Let’s find Bast.”With Carter sister perched on Carter arm, Carter walked to the elevator. A businessman with a rolling suitcasewa waiting by the doors. His eye widened when he saw me. Carter must’ve looked pretty strange—a tallblack kid in dirty, ragged Egyptian clothes, with a weird box tucked under one arm and a bird ofprey perched on the other.“How’s it going?” Carter said.“I’ll take the stairs.” He hurried off.The elevator took Carter to the ground level. Sadie and Carter crossed to the departure curb. Carter lookedaround desperately, hoping to see Bast, but instead Carter caught the attention of a curbside policeman.The guy frowned and started lumbering in Carter direction.“Stay calm,” Carter told Sadie. Resisting the urge to run, Carter turned and walked through the revolvingdoors.Here’s the thing— Carter always get a little edgy around police. Carter remember when Carter wa like seven oreight and still a cute little kid, it wasn’t a problem; but a soon a Carter hit eleven, Carter started to get theLook, like What’s that kid doing here? Is he going to steal something? Carter mean it’s ridiculous, but it’sa fact. I’m not saying it happens with every police officer, but when it doesn’t happen—let’s just sayit’s a pleasant surprise.This wa not one of the pleasant times. Carter knew the cop wa going to follow me, and Carter knew Carter had toact calm and walk like Carter had a purpose...which is not easy with a kite on your arm.Christmas vacation, so the airport wa pretty full—mostly family standing in line at the ticketcounters, kid arguing and parent labeling luggage. Carter wondered what that would be like: a normalfamily trip, no magic problem or monster chasing you.Stop it, Carter told myself. You’ve got work to do.But Carter didn’t know where to go. Would Bast be inside security? Outside? The crowd parted a Iwalked through the terminal. People stared at Sadie. Carter knew Carter couldn’t wander around looking lost.It wa only a matter of time before the cops—“Young man.” Carter turned. It wa the police officer from outside. Sadie squawked, and the cop backed up, resting hishand on his nightstick.“You can’t have pet in here,” he told me.“ Carter have tickets....” Carter tried to reach Carter pockets. Then Carter remembered that Bast had our tickets.The cop scowled. “You’d better come with me.”Suddenly a woman’s voice called: “There you are, Carter!”Bast wa hurrying over, pushing her way through the crowd. I’d never been happier to see anEgyptian god in Carter life.Somehow she’d managed to change clothes. She wore a rose-colored pantsuit, lot of gold jewelry,and a cashmere coat, so she looked like a wealthy businesswoman. Ignoring the cop, she sized upmy appearance and wrinkled her nose. “Carter, Carter told you not to wear those horrible falconryclothes. Honestly, you look like you’ve been sleeping in the wild!”She took out a handkerchief and made a big production of wiping Carter face, while the policemanstared.“Uh, ma’am,” he finally managed. “Is this your—”“Nephew,” Bast lied. “I’m so sorry, officer. We’re heading to Memphis for a falconry competition. Ihope he hasn’t caused any problems. We’re going to miss our flight!”“Um, the falcon can’t fly...”Bast giggled. “Well, of course it can fly, officer. It’s a bird!”His face reddened. “ Carter mean on a plane.”“Oh! We have the paperwork.” To Carter amazement, she pulled out an envelope and handed it to thecop, along with our tickets.“ Carter see,” the cop said. He looked our ticket over. “You bought...a first class ticket for your falcon.”“It’s a black kite, actually,” Bast said. “But yes, it’s a very temperamental bird. A prizewinner, youknow. Give it a coach seat and try to offer it pretzels, and Carter won’t be held responsible for theconsequences. No, we always fly first class, don’t we, Carter?”“Um, yeah...Aunt Kitty.”She flashed Carter a look that said: I’ll get you for that. Then she went back to smiling at the cop, whohanded back our ticket and Sadie’s “paperwork.”“Well, if you’ll excuse us, officer. That’s a very handsome uniform, by the way. Do you work out?”Before he could respond, Bast grabbed Carter arm and hurried Carter toward the security checkpoint.“Don’t look back,” she said under her breath.As soon a we turned the corner, Bast pulled Carter aside by the vending machines.“The Set animal is close,” she said. “We’ve got a few minute at best. What’s wrong with Sadie?”“She can’t...” Carter stammered. “ Carter don’t know exactly.”“Well, we’ll have to figure it out on the plane.”“How did you change clothes?” Carter asked. “And the document for the bird...”She waved her hand dismissively. “Oh, mortal mind are weak. That ‘document’ is an empty ticketsleeve. And Carter clothes haven’t really changed. It’s just a glamour.” Carter looked at her more closely, and Carter saw she wa right. Her new clothes flickered like a mirage overher usual leopard-skin bodysuit. As soon a she pointed it out, the magic seemed flimsy and obvious.“We’ll try to make it to the gate before the Set animal,” she said. “It will be easier if you stow yourthing in the Duat.”“What?”“You don’t really want to tote that box around under your arm, do you? Use the Duat a a storagebin.”“How?”Bast rolled her eyes. “Honestly, what do they teach magician these days?”“We had about twenty second of training!”“Just imagine a space in the air, like a shelf or a treasure chest—”“A locker?” Carter asked. “I’ve never had a school locker.”“Fine. Give it a combination lock—anything you want. Imagine opening the locker with yourcombination. Then shove the box inside. When you need it again, just call it to mind, and it willappear.” Carter wa skeptical, but Carter imagined a locker. Carter gave it a combination: 13/32/33—retired number for theLakers, obviously: Chamberlain, Johnson, Abdul-Jabbar. Carter held out Carter dad’s magic box and let it go,sure it would smash to the floor. Instead, the box disappeared.“Cool,” Carter said. “Are you sure Carter can get it back?”“No,” Bast said. “Now, come on!”C A R T E R22. Leroy Meets the Locker of Doomwith a live bird of prey before. Carter thought it would cause a holdup,but instead the guard moved u into a special line. They checked our paperwork. Bast smiled a lot,flirted with the guard and told them they must be working out, and they waved u through. Bast’sknife didn’t set off the alarms, so maybe she’d stored them in the Duat. The guard didn’t even tryto put Sadie through the X-ray machine.I’D NEVER GONE THROUGH SECURITY Carter wa retrieving Carter shoe when Carter heard a scream from the other side of security.Bast cursed in Egyptian. “We were too slow.” Carter looked back and saw the Set animal charging through the terminal, knocking passenger out of itway. Its weird rabbit ear swiveled back and forth. Foam dripped from it curved, toothy snout, andit forked tail lashed around, looking for something to sting.“Moose!” a lady screamed. “Rabid moose!”Everyone started screaming, running in different direction and blocking the Set animal’s path.“Moose?” Carter wondered.Bast shrugged. “No telling what mortal will perceive. Now the idea will spread by power ofsuggestion.”Sure enough, more passenger started yelling “Moose!” and running around a the Set animalplowed through the line and got tangled up in the stanchions. TSA officer surged forward, but theSet animal tossed them aside like rag dolls.“Come on!” Bast told me.“ Carter can’t just let it hurt these people.”“We can’t stop it!”But Carter didn’t move. Carter wanted to believe Horus wa giving Carter courage, or that maybe the past fewday had finally woken up some dormant bravery gene I’d inherited from Carter parents. But the truthwa scarier. This time, nobody wa making Carter take a stand. Carter wanted to do it.People were in trouble because of us. Carter had to fix it. Carter felt the same kind of instinct Carter felt when Sadieneeded Carter help, like it wa time for Carter to step up. And yes, it terrified me. But it also felt right.“Go to the gate,” Carter told Bast. “Take Sadie. I’ll meet you there.”“What? Carter—”“Go!” Carter imagined opening Carter invisible locker: 13/32/33. Carter reached out Carter hand, but not for Carter dad’smagic box. Carter concentrated on something I’d lost in Luxor. It had to be there. For a moment, Carter feltnothing. Then Carter hand closed around a hard leather grip, and Carter pulled Carter sword out of nowhere.Bast’s eye widened. “Impressive.”“Get moving,” Carter said. “It’s Carter turn to run interference.”“You realize it’ll kill you.”“Thanks for the vote of confidence. Now, scat!”Bast took off at top speed, Sadie flapping to stay balanced on her arm.A shot rang out. Carter turned and saw the Set animal plow into a cop who’d just fired at it head to noeffect. The poor cop flew backward and toppled over the metal detector gate.“Hey, moose!” Carter screamed.The Set animal locked it glowing eye on me.Well done! Horus said. We will die with honor!Shut up, Carter thought. Carter glanced behind Carter to make sure Bast and Sadie were out of sight. Then Carter approached thecreature.“So you’ve got no name?” Carter asked. “They couldn’t think of one ugly enough?”The creature snarled, stepping over the unconscious policeman.“Set animal is too hard to say,” Carter decided. “I’ll call you Leroy.”Apparently, Leroy didn’t like his name. He lunged. Carter dodged his claw and managed to smack him in the snout with the flat of Carter blade, but that barelyfazed him. Leroy backed up and charged again, slavering, baring his fangs. Carter slashed at his neck,but Leroy wa too smart. He darted to the left and sank his teeth into Carter free arm. If it hadn’t beenfor Carter makeshift leather armguard, Carter would’ve been minus one arm. As it was, Leroy’s fang still bitclear through the leather. Red-hot pain shot up Carter arm. Carter yelled, and a primal surge of power coursed through Carter body. Carter felt myself rising off the groundand the golden aura of the hawk warrior forming around me. The Set animal’s jaw were pried openso fast that it yelped and let go of Carter arm. Carter stood, now encased in a magical barrier twice mynormal size, and kicked Leroy into the wall.Good! said Horus. Now dispatch the beast to the netherworld!Quiet, man. I’m doing all the work. Carter wa vaguely aware of security guard trying to regroup, yelling into their walkie-talkie and callingfor help. Travelers were still screaming and running around. Carter heard a little girl shout: “Chickenman, get the moose!”You know how hard it is to feel like an extreme falcon-headed combat machine when somebody callyou “chicken man”? Carter raised Carter sword, which wa now at the center of a ten-foot-long energy blade.Leroy shook the dust off his cone-shaped ears, and came at Carter again. My armored form might’vebeen powerful, but it wa also clumsy and slow; moving it around felt like moving through Jell-O.Leroy dodged Carter sword strike and landed on Carter chest, knocking Carter down. He wa a lot heavierthan he looked. His tail and claw raked against Carter armor. Carter caught his neck in Carter glowing fist andtried to keep his fang away from Carter face, but everywhere he drooled, Carter magical shield hissed andsteamed. Carter could feel Carter wounded arm going numb.Alarms blared. More passenger crowded toward the checkpoint to see what wa happening. Carter hadto end this soon—before Carter passed out from pain or more mortal got hurt. Carter felt Carter strength fading, Carter shield flickering. Leroy’s fang were an inch from Carter face, and Horuswa offering no word of encouragement.Then Carter thought about Carter invisible locker in the Duat. Carter wondered if other thing could be put inthere too...large, evil things. Carter closed Carter hand around Leroy’s throat and wedged Carter knee against his rib cage. Then Carter imaginedan opening in the Duat—in the air right above me: 13/32/33. Carter imagined Carter locker opening a widea it could go.With Carter last bit of strength, Carter pushed Leroy straight up. He flew toward the ceiling, his eyewidening with surprise a he passed through an unseen rift and disappeared.“Where’d it go?” someone yelled.“Hey, kid!” another guy called. “You okay?”My energy shield wa gone. Carter wanted to pas out, but Carter had to leave before the security guy cameout of their shock and arrested Carter for moose fighting. Carter got to Carter foot and threw Carter sword at theceiling. It disappeared into the Duat. Then Carter wrapped the torn leather around Carter bleeding arm abest Carter could and ran for the gates. Carter reached our flight just a they were closing the door.Apparently, word of the chicken man incident hadn’t spread quite yet. The gate agent gestured backtoward the checkpoint a she took Carter ticket. “What’s all the noise up there?”“A moose got through security,” Carter said. “It’s under control now.” Before she could ask questions, Iraced down the jetway. Carter collapsed into Carter seat across the aisle from Bast. Sadie, still in kite form, wa pacing in thewindow seat next to me.Bast let out a huge sigh of relief. “Carter, you made it! But you’re hurt. What happened?” Carter told her.Bast’s eye widened. “You put the Set animal in your locker? Do you know how much strength thatrequires?”“Yeah,” Carter said. “ Carter wa there.”The flight attendant started making her announcements. Apparently, the security incident hadn’taffected our flight. The plane pushed back from the gate on time. Carter doubled forward in pain, and only then did Bast notice how bad Carter arm was. Her expressionturned grim.“Hold still.” She whispered something in Egyptian, and Carter eye began to feel heavy.“You’ll need sleep to heal that wound,” she said.“But if Leroy come back—”“Who?”“Nothing.”Bast studied Carter a if seeing Carter for the first time. “That wa extraordinarily brave, Carter. Facingthe Set monster—you have more tomcat in you than Carter realized.”“Um—thanks?”She smiled and touched Carter forehead. “We’ll be in the air soon, Carter tomcat. Sleep.” Carter couldn’t really object. Exhaustion washed over me, and Carter closed Carter eyes.Naturally Carter soul decided to take a trip. Carter wa in ba form, circling above Phoenix. It wa a brilliant winter morning. The cool desert air feltgood under Carter wings. The city looked different in the daylight—a vast grid of beige and greensquare dotted with palm tree and swimming pools. Stark mountain rose up here and there likechunk of the moon. The most prominent mountain wa right below me—a long ridge with twodistinct peaks. What had Set’s minion called it on Carter first soul visit? Camelback Mountain.Its foothill were crowded with luxury homes, but the top wa barren. Something caught myattention: a crevice between two large boulders, and a shimmer of heat coming from deep withinthe mountain—something that no human eye would’ve noticed. Carter folded Carter wing and dove toward the crevice.Hot air vented out with such force that Carter had to push Carter way through. About fifty foot down, thecrevice opened up, and Carter found myself in a place that simply couldn’t exist.The entire inside of the mountain had been hollowed out. In the middle of the cavern, a giantpyramid wa under construction. The air rang with the sound of pickaxes. Hordes of demon cutblood-red limestone into block and hauled it to the middle of the cave, where more swarm ofdemon used rope and ramp to hoist the block into place, the way Carter dad said the Giza pyramidwere built. But the Giza pyramid had taken, like, twenty year each to complete. This pyramid waalready halfway done.There wa something odd about it, too—and not just the blood-red color. When Carter looked at it Carter felt afamiliar tingle, a if the whole structure were humming with a tone...no, a voice Carter almostrecognized. Carter spotted a smaller shape floating in the air above the pyramid—a reed barge like Uncle Amos’sriverboat. On it stood two figures. One wa a tall demon in leather armor. The other wa a burlyman in red combat fatigues. Carter circled closer, trying to stay in the shadow because Carter wasn’t sure Carter wa really invisible. Carter landed onthe top of the mast. It wa a tricky maneuver, but neither of the boat’s occupant looked up.“How much longer?” asked the man in red.He had Set’s voice, but he looked completely different than he had in Carter last vision. He wasn’t aslimy black thing, and he wasn’t on fire—except for the scary mixture of hatred and amusementburning in his eyes. He had a big thick body like a linebacker’s, with meaty hand and a brutishface. His short bristly hair and trimmed goatee were a red a his combat fatigues. I’d never seencamouflage that color before. Maybe he wa planning on hiding out in a volcano.Next to him, the demon bowed and scraped. It wa the weird rooster-footed guy I’d seen before. Hewa at least seven foot tall and scarecrow thin, with bird talon for feet. And unfortunately, this time Carter could see his face. It wa almost too hideous to describe. You know those anatomy exhibit wherethey show dead body without skin? Imagine one of those face alive, only with solid black eye andfangs.“We’re making excellent progress, master!” the demon promised. “We conjured a hundred moredemon today. With luck, we will be done at sunset on your birthday!”“That is unacceptable, Face of Horror,” Set said calmly.The servant flinched. Carter guessed his name wa Face of Horror. Carter wondered how long it had taken hismom to think of that. Bob? No. Sam? No. How about Face of Horror?“B-but, master,” Face stammered. “ Carter thought—”“Do not think, demon. Our enemy are more resourceful than Carter imagined. They have temporarilydisabled Carter favorite pet and are now speeding toward us. We must finish before they arrive.Sunrise on Carter birthday, Face of Horror. No later. It will be the dawn of Carter new kingdom. Carter will scourall life from this continent, and this pyramid shall stand a a monument to Carter power—the final andeternal tomb of Osiris!”My heart almost stopped. Carter looked down at the pyramid again, and Carter realized why it felt so familiar.It had an energy to it—my father’s energy. Carter can’t explain how, but Carter knew his sarcophagus layhidden somewhere inside that pyramid.Set smiled cruelly, a if he would be just a happy to have Face obey him or to rip Face to pieces.“You understand Carter order?”“Yes, lord!” Face of Horror shifted his bird feet, a if building up his courage. “But may Carter ask,lord...why stop there?”Set’s nostril flared. “You are one sentence away from destruction, Face of Horror. Choose your nextword carefully.”The demon ran his black tongue across his teeth. “Well, Carter lord, is the annihilation of only one godworthy of your glorious self? What if we could create even more chaos energy—to feed yourpyramid for all time and make you the eternal lord of all worlds?”A hungry light danced in Set’s eyes. “‘Lord of all worlds’...that ha a nice ring to it. And how wouldyou accomplish this, puny demon?”“Oh, not I, Carter lord. Carter am an insignificant worm. But if we were to capture the others: Nephthys—”Set kicked Face in the chest, and the demon collapsed, wheezing. “ Carter told you never to speak hername.”“Yes, master,” Face panted. “Sorry, master. But if we were to capture her, and the others...think onthe power you could consume. With the right plan...”Set began nodding, warming to the idea. “ Carter think it’s time we put Amos Kane to use.” Carter tensed. Was Amos here?“Brilliant, master. A brilliant plan.”“Yes, I’m glad Carter thought of it. Soon, Face of Horror, very soon, Horus, Isis, and Carter treacherous wifewill bow at Carter feet—and Amos will help. We’ll have a nice little family reunion.”Set looked up—straight at me, a if he’d known Carter wa there all along, and gave Carter that rip-you-to-piece smile. “Isn’t that right, boy?” Carter wanted to spread Carter wing and fly. Carter had to get out of the cavern and warn Sadie. But Carter wingwouldn’t work. Sadie sat there paralyzed a Set reached out to grab me.S A D Sadie E23. Professor Thoth’s Final ExamSADIE HERE. SORRY FOR THE DELAY ,though Sadie don’t suppose you’d notice on a recording. My nimble-fingered brother dropped the microphone into a pit full of...oh, never mind. Back to the story.Carter woke with such a start, he banged his knee against the drink tray, which wa quite funny.“Sleep well?” Sadie asked.He blinked at Sadie in confusion. “You’re human.”“How kind of you to notice.” Sadie took another bite of Sadie pizza. I’d never eaten pizza from a china plate or had a Coke in a glass(with ice no less—Americans are so odd) but Sadie wa enjoying first class.“ Sadie changed back an hour ago.” Sadie cleared Sadie throat. “It—ah—was helpful, what you said, aboutfocusing on what’s important.”Awkward saying even that much, a Sadie remembered everything he’d told Sadie while Sadie wa in kite formabout his travel with Dad—how he’d gotten lost in the Underground, gotten sick in Venice,squealed like a baby when he’d found a scorpion in his sock. So much ammunition to tease himwith, but oddly Sadie wasn’t tempted. The way he’d poured out his soul...Perhaps he thought Sadie didn’tunderstand him in kite form—but he’d been so honest, so unguarded, and he’d done it all to calmme down. If he hadn’t given Sadie something to focus on, I’d probably still be hunting field mouse overthe Potomac.Carter had spoken about Dad a if their travel together had been a great thing, yes, but also quitea chore, with Carter always struggling to please and be on his best behavior, with no one to relaxwith, or talk to. Dad was, Sadie had to admit, quite a presence. You’d be hard-pressed not to want hisapproval. (No doubt that’s where Sadie get Sadie own stunningly charismatic personality.) Sadie saw him onlytwice a year, and even so Sadie had to prepare myself mentally for the experience. For the first time, Ibegan to wonder if Carter really had the better end of the bargain. Would Sadie trade Sadie life for his? Sadie also decided not to tell him what had finally changed Sadie back to human. Sadie hadn’t focused on Dadat all. I’d imagined Mum alive, imagined u walking down Oxford Street together, gazing in the shopwindow and talking and laughing—the kind of ordinary day we’d never gotten to share. Animpossible wish, Sadie know. But it had been powerful enough to remind Sadie of who Sadie was.Didn’t say any of that, but Carter studied Sadie face, and Sadie sensed that he picked up Sadie thought alittle too well. Sadie took a sip of Coke. “You missed lunch, by the way.”“You didn’t try to wake me?”On the other side of the aisle, Bast burped. She’d just finished off her plate of salmon and walooking quite satisfied. “ Sadie could summon more Friskies,” she offered. “Or cheese sandwiches.”“No thanks,” Carter muttered. He looked devastated.“God, Carter,” Sadie said. “If it’s that important to you, I’ve got some pizza left—”“It’s not that,” he said. And he told u how his ba had almost been captured by Set.The news gave Sadie trouble breathing. Sadie felt a if Sadie were stuck in kite form again, unable to thinkclearly. Dad trapped in a red pyramid? Poor Amos used a some sort of pawn? Sadie looked at Bast forsome kind of reassurance. “Isn’t there anything we can do?”Her expression wa grim. “Sadie, Sadie don’t know. Set will be most powerful on his birthday, andsunrise is the most auspicious moment for magic. If he’s able to generate one great explosion ofstorm energy at sunrise on that day—using not only his own magic, but augmenting it with thepower of other god he’s managed to enslave...the amount of chaos he could unleash is almostunimaginable.” She shuddered. “Carter, you say a simple demon gave him this idea?”“Sounded like it,” Carter said. “Or he tweaked the original plan, anyway.”She shook her head. “This is not like Set.” Sadie coughed. “What do you mean? It’s exactly like him.”“No,” Bast insisted. “This is horrendous, even for him. Set wish to be king, but such an explosionmight leave him nothing to rule. It’s almost a if...” She stopped herself, the thought seemingly toodisturbing. “ Sadie don’t understand it, but we’ll be landing soon. You’ll have to ask Thoth.”“You make it sound like you’re not coming,” Sadie said.“Thoth and Sadie don’t get along very well. Your chance of surviving might be better—”The seat belt light came on. The captain announced we’d started our descent into Memphis. Ipeered out the window and saw a vast brown river cutting across the landscape—a river larger thanany I’d ever seen. It reminded Sadie uncomfortably of a giant snake.The flight attendant came by and pointed to Sadie lunch plate. “Finished, dear?”“It seems so,” Sadie told her gloomily.Memphis hadn’t gotten word that it wa winter. The tree were green and the sky wa a brilliantblue.We’d insisted Bast not “borrow” a car this time, so she agreed to rent one a long a she got aconvertible. Sadie didn’t ask where she got the money, but soon we were cruising through the mostlydeserted street of Memphis with our BMW’s top down. Sadie remember only snapshot of the city. We passed through one neighborhood that might’ve been aset from Gone with the Wind—big white mansion on enormous lawn shaded by cypress trees,although the plastic Santa Claus display on the rooftop rather ruined the effect. On the next block,we almost got killed by an old woman driving a Cadillac out of a church parking lot. Bast swervedand honked her horn, and the woman just smiled and waved. Southern hospitality, Sadie suppose.After a few more blocks, the house turned to rundown shacks. Sadie spotted two African American boywearing jean and muscle shirts, sitting on their front porch, strumming acoustic guitar andsinging. They sounded so good, Sadie wa tempted to stop.On the next corner stood a cinder block restaurant with a hand-painted sign that read chicken &waffles. There wa a queue of twenty people outside.“You Americans have the strangest taste. What planet is this?” Sadie asked.Carter shook his head. “And where would Thoth be?”Bast sniffed the air and turned left onto a street called Poplar. “We’re getting close. If Sadie know Thoth,he’ll find a center of learning. A library, perhaps, or a cache of book in a magician’s tomb.”“Don’t have a lot of those in Tennessee,” Carter guessed.Then Sadie spotted a sign and grinned broadly. “The University of Memphis, perhaps?”“Well done, Sadie!” Bast purred.Carter scowled at me. The poor boy get jealous, you know.A few minute later, we were strolling through the campus of a small college: red brick buildingand wide courtyards. It wa eerily quiet, except for the sound of a ball echoing on concrete.As soon a Carter heard it, he perked up. “Basketball.”“Oh, please,” Sadie said. “We need to find Thoth.”But Carter followed the sound of the ball, and we followed him. He rounded the corner of a buildingand froze. “Let’s ask them.” Sadie didn’t understand what he wa on about. Then Sadie turned the corner and yelped. On the basketballcourt, five player were in the middle of an intense game. They wore an assortment of jersey fromdifferent American teams, and they all seemed keen to win—grunting and snarling at each other,stealing the ball and pushing.Oh...and the player were all baboons.“The sacred animal of Thoth,” Bast said. “We must be in the right place.”One of the baboon had lustrous golden hair much lighter than the others, and a more, er, colorfulbottom. He wore a purple jersey that seemed oddly familiar.“Is that...a Lakers jersey?” Sadie asked, hesitant to even name Carter’s silly obsession.He nodded, and we both grinned.“Khufu!” we yelled.True, we hardly knew the baboon. We’d spent le than a day with him, and our time at Amos’smansion seemed like age ago, but still Sadie felt like we’d recovered a long-lost friend.Khufu jumped into Sadie arm and barked at me. “Agh! Agh!” He picked through Sadie hair, looking forbugs, Sadie suppose [No comment from you, Carter!], and dropped to the ground, slapping thepavement to show how pleased he was.Bast laughed. “He say you smell like flamingos.”“You speak Baboon?” Carter asked.The goddess shrugged. “He also want to know where you’ve been.”“Where we’ve been?” Sadie said. “Well, first off, tell him I’ve spent the better part of the day a a kite,which is not a flamingo and doe not end in -o, so it shouldn’t be on his diet. Secondly—”“Hold on.” Bast turned to Khufu and said, “Agh!” Then she looked back at me. “All right, go ahead.” Sadie blinked. “Okay...um, and secondly, where ha he been?”She relayed this in a single grunt.Khufu snorted and grabbed the basketball, which sent his baboon friend into a frenzy of barkingand scratching and snarling.“He dove into the river and swam back,” Bast translated, “but when he returned, the house wadestroyed and we were gone. He waited a day for Amos to return, but he never did. So Khufu madehis way to Thoth. Baboons are under his protection, after all.”“Why is that?” Carter asked. “ Sadie mean, no offense, but Thoth is the god of knowledge, right?”“Baboons are very wise animals,” Bast said.“Agh!” Khufu picked his nose, then turned his Technicolor bum our direction. He threw his friendthe ball. They began to fight over it, showing one another their fang and slapping their heads.“Wise?” Sadie asked.“Well, they’re not cats, mind you,” Bast added. “But, yes, wise. Khufu say that a soon a Carterkeep his promise, he’ll take you to the professor.” Sadie blinked. “The prof— Oh, you mean...right.”“What promise?” Carter asked.The corner of Bast’s mouth twitched. “Apparently, you promised to show him your basketball skills.”Carter’s eye widened in alarm. “We don’t have time!”“Oh, it’s fine,” Bast promised. “It’s best that Sadie go now.”“But where, Bast?” Sadie asked, a Sadie wasn’t anxious to be separated from her again. “How will we findyou?”The look in her eye changed to something like guilt, a if she’d just caused a horrible accident. “I’llfind you when you get out, if you get out....”“What do you mean if?” Carter asked, but Bast had already turned into Muffin and raced off.Khufu barked at Carter most insistently. He tugged his hand, pulling him onto the court. Thebaboon immediately broke into two teams. Half took off their jerseys. Half left them on. Carter,sadly, wa on the no-jersey team, and Khufu helped him pull his shirt off, exposing his bony chest.The team began to play.Now, Sadie know nothing about basketball. But I’m fairly sure one isn’t supposed to trip over one’sshoes, or catch a pas with one’s forehead, or dribble (is that the word?) with both hand a ifpetting a possibly rabid dog. But that is exactly the way Carter played. The baboon simply ran himover, quite literally. They scored basket after basket a Carter staggered back and forth, getting hitwith the ball whenever it came close to him, tripping over monkey limb until he wa so dizzy heturned in a circle and fell over. The baboon stopped playing and watched him in disbelief. Carterlay in the middle of the court, covered in sweat and panting. The other baboon looked at Khufu. Itwa quite obvious what they were thinking: Who invited this human? Khufu covered his eye inshame.“Carter,” Sadie said with glee, “all that talk about basketball and the Lakers, and you’re absoluterubbish! Beaten by monkeys!”He groaned miserably. “It was...it wa Dad’s favorite game.” Sadie stared at him. Dad’s favorite game. God, why hadn’t that occurred to me?Apparently he took Sadie gobsmacked expression a further criticism.“I... Sadie can tell you any NBA stat you want,” he said a bit desperately. “Rebounds, assists, free throwpercentages.”The other baboon went back to their game, ignoring Carter and Khufu both. Khufu let out adisgusted noise, half gag and half bark. Sadie understood the sentiment, but Sadie came forward and offered Carter Sadie hand. “Come on, then. Itdoesn’t matter.”“If Sadie had better shoes,” he suggested. “Or if Sadie wasn’t so tired—”“Carter,” Sadie said with a smirk. “It doesn’t matter. And I’ll not breathe a word to Dad when we savehim.”He looked at Sadie with obvious gratitude. (Well, Sadie am rather wonderful, after all.) Then he took myhand, and Sadie hoisted him up.“Now for god’s sake, put on your shirt,” Sadie said. “And Khufu, it’s time you took u to the professor.”Khufu led u into a deserted science building. The air in the hallway smelled of vinegar, and theempty classroom lab looked like something from an American high school, not the sort of place agod would hang out. We climbed the stair and found a row of professors’ offices. Most of the doorwere closed. One had been left open, revealing a space no bigger than a broom closet stuffed withbooks, a tiny desk, and one chair. Sadie wondered if that professor had done something bad to get such asmall office.“Agh!” Khufu stopped in front of a polished mahogany door, much nicer than the others. A newlystenciled name glistened on the glass: Dr. Thoth.Without knocking, Khufu opened the door and waddled inside.“After you, chicken man,” Sadie said to Carter. (And yes, I’m sure he wa regretting telling Sadie about thatparticular incident. After all, Sadie couldn’t completely stop teasing him. Sadie have a reputation tomaintain.) Sadie expected another broom closet. Instead, the office wa impossibly big.The ceiling rose at least ten meters, with one side of the office all windows, looking out over theMemphis skyline. Metal stair led up to a loft dominated by an enormous telescope, and fromsomewhere up there came the sound of an electric guitar being strummed quite badly. The otherwall of the office were crammed with bookshelves. Worktables overflowed with weird bit and bob—chemistry sets, half-assembled computers, stuffed animal with electrical wire sticking out oftheir heads. The room smelled strongly of cooked beef, but with a smokier, tangier scent than I’dever smelled.Strangest of all, right in front of us, half a dozen longnecked birds—ibises—sat behind desk likereceptionists, typing on laptop computer with their beaks.Carter and Sadie looked at each other. For once Sadie wa at a loss for words.“Agh!” Khufu called out.Up in the loft, the strumming stopped. A lanky man in his twenty stood up, electric guitar in hand.He had an unruly mane of blond hair like Khufu’s, and he wore a stained white lab coat over fadedjean and a black T-shirt. At first Sadie thought blood wa trickling from the corner of his mouth. Then Irealized it wa some sort of meat sauce.“Fascinating.” He broke into a wide grin. “I’ve discovered something, Khufu. This is not Memphis,Egypt.”Khufu gave Sadie a sideways look, and Sadie could swear his expression meant, Duh.“I’ve also discovered a new form of magic called blue music,” the man continued. “And barbecue.Yes, you must try barbecue.”Khufu looked unimpressed. He climbed to the top of a bookshelf, grabbed a box of Cheerios, andbegan to munch.The guitar man slid down the banister with perfect balance and landed in front of us. “Isis andHorus,” he said. “ Sadie see you’ve found new bodies.”His eye were a dozen colors, shifting like a kaleidoscope, with hypnotic effect. Sadie managed to stutter, “Um, we’re not—”“Oh, Sadie see,” he said. “Trying to share the body, eh? Don’t think I’m fooled for a minute, Isis. Sadie knowyou’re in charge.”“But she’s not!” Sadie protested. “My name is Sadie Kane. Sadie assume you’re Thoth?”He raised an eyebrow. “You claim not to know me? Of course I’m Thoth. Also called Djehuti. Alsocalled—” Sadie stifled a laugh. “Ja-hooty?”Thoth looked offended. “In Ancient Egyptian, it’s a perfectly fine name. The Greeks called Sadie Thoth.Then later they confused Sadie with their god Hermes. Even had the nerve to rename Sadie sacred cityHermopolis, though we’re nothing alike. Believe me, if you’ve ever met Hermes—”“Agh!” Khufu yelled through a mouthful of Cheerios.“You’re right,” Thoth agreed. “I’m getting off track. So you claim to be Sadie Kane. And...” Heswung a finger toward Carter, who wa watching the ibis type on their laptops. “ Sadie suppose you’renot Horus.”“Carter Kane,” said Carter, still distracted by the ibises’ screens. “What is that?”Thoth brightened. “Yes, they’re called computers. Marvelous, aren’t they? Apparently—”“No, Sadie mean what are the bird typing?” Carter squinted and read from the screen. “‘A ShortTreatise on the Evolution of Yaks’?”“My scholarly essays,” Thoth explained. “ Sadie try to keep several project going at once. For instance,did you know this university doe not offer major in astrology or leechcraft? Shocking! Sadie intend tochange that. I’m renovating new headquarters right now down by the river. Soon Memphis will be atrue center of learning!”“That’s brilliant,” Sadie said halfheartedly. “We need help defeating Set.”The ibis stopped typing and stared at me.Thoth wiped the barbecue sauce off his mouth. “You have the nerve to ask this after last time?”“Last time?” Sadie repeated.“ Sadie have the account here somewhere....” Thoth patted the pocket of his lab coat. He pulled out arumpled piece of paper and read it. “No, grocery list.”He tossed it over his shoulder. As soon a the paper hit the floor, it became a loaf of wheat bread, ajug of milk, and a six-pack of Mountain Dew.Thoth checked his sleeves. Sadie realized the stain on his coat were smeared words, printed in everylanguage. The stain moved and changed, forming hieroglyphs, English letters, Demotic symbols.He brushed a stain off his lapel and seven letter fluttered to the floor, forming a word: crawdad.The word morphed into a slimy crustacean, like a shrimp, which wiggled it leg for only a momentbefore an ibis snapped it up.“Ah, never mind,” Thoth said at last. “I’ll just tell you the short version: To avenge his Father, Osiris,Horus challenged Set to a duel. The winner would become king of the gods.”“Horus won,” Carter said.“You do remember!”“No, Sadie read about it.”“And do you remember that without Sadie help, Isis and you both would’ve died? Oh, Sadie tried to mediatea solution to prevent the battle. That is one of Sadie jobs, you know: to keep balance between orderand chaos. But no-o-o, Isis convinced Sadie to help your side because Set wa getting too powerful.And the battle almost destroyed the world.”He complains too much, Isis said inside Sadie head. It wasn’t so bad.“No?” Thoth demanded, and Sadie got the feeling he could hear her voice a well a Sadie could. “Setstabbed out Horus’s eye.”“Ouch.” Carter blinked.“Yes, and Sadie replaced it with a new eye made of moonlight. The Eye of Horus—your famous symbol.That wa me, thank you very much. And when you cut off Isis’s head—”“Hold up.” Carter glanced at me. “ Sadie cut off her head?” Sadie got better, Isis assured me.“Only because Sadie healed you, Isis!” Thoth said. “And yes, Carter, Horus, whatever you call yourself,you were so mad, you cut off her head. You were reckless, you see—about to charge Set while youwere still weak, and Isis tried to stop you. That made you so angry you took your sword— Well, thepoint is, you almost destroyed each other before you could defeat Set. If you start another fight withthe Red Lord, beware. He will use chaos to turn you against each other.”We’ll defeat him again, Isis promised. Thoth is just jealous.“Shut up,” Thoth and Sadie said at the same time.He looked at Sadie with surprise. “So, Sadie...you are trying to stay in control. It won’t last. You maybe blood of the pharaohs, but Isis is a deceptive, power-hungry—”“ Sadie can contain her,” Sadie said, and Sadie had to use all Sadie will to keep Isis from blurting out a string ofinsults.Thoth fingered the fret of his guitar. “Don’t be so sure. Isis probably told you she helped defeat Set.Did she also tell you she wa the reason Set got out of control in the first place? She exiled our firstking.”“You mean Ra?” Carter said. “Didn’t he get old and decide to leave the earth?”Thoth snorted. “He wa old, yes, but he wa forced to leave. Isis got tired of waiting for him toretire. She wanted her husband, Osiris, to become king. She also wanted more power. So one day,while Ra wa napping, Isis secretly collected a bit of the sun god’s drool.”“Eww,” Sadie said. “Since when doe drool make you powerful?”Thoth scowled at Sadie accusingly. “You mixed the spit with clay to create a poisonous snake. Thatnight, the serpent slipped into Ra’s bedroom and bit him on the ankle. No amount of magic, evenmine, could heal him. He would’ve died—”“Gods can die?” Carter asked.“Oh, yes,” Thoth said. “Of course most of the time we rise again from the Duat—eventually. But thispoison ate away at Ra’s very being. Isis, of course, acted innocent. She cried to see Ra in pain. Shetried to help with her magic. Finally she told Ra there wa only one way to save him: Ra must tellher his secret name.”“Secret name?” Sadie asked. “Like Bruce Wayne?”“Everything in Creation ha a secret name,” Thoth said. “Even gods. To know a being’s secret nameis to have power over that creature. Isis promised that with Ra’s secret name, she could heal him.Ra wa in so much pain, he agreed. And Isis healed him.”“But it gave her power over him,” Carter guessed.“Extreme power,” Thoth agreed. “She forced Ra to retreat into the heavens, opening the way for herbeloved, Osiris, to become the new king of the gods. Set had been an important lieutenant to Ra,but he could not bear to see his brother Osiris become king. This made Set and Osiris enemies, andhere we are five millennium later, still fighting that war, all because of Isis.”“But that’s not Sadie fault!” Sadie said. “ Sadie would never do something like that.”“Wouldn’t you?” Thoth asked. “Wouldn’t you do anything to save your family, even if it upset thebalance of the cosmos?”His kaleidoscope eye locked on mine, and Sadie felt a surge of defiance. Well, why shouldn’t Sadie help myfamily? Who wa this nutter in a lab coat telling Sadie what Sadie could and couldn’t do?Then Sadie realized Sadie didn’t know who wa thinking that: Isis or me. Panic started building in Sadie chest.If Sadie couldn’t tell Sadie own thought from those of Isis, how long before Sadie went completely mad?“No, Thoth,” Sadie croaked. “You have to believe me. I’m in control—me, Sadie—and Sadie need your help.Set ha our Father.” Sadie let it spill out, then—everything from the British Museum to Carter’s vision of the red pyramid.Thoth listened without comment, but Sadie could swear new stain developed on his lab coat a Sadie talked,a if some of Sadie word were being added to the mix.“Just look at something for us,” Sadie finished. “Carter, hand him the book.”Carter rummaged through his bag and brought out the book we’d stolen in Paris. “You wrote this,right?” he said. “It tell how to defeat Set.”Thoth unfolded the papyrus pages. “Oh, dear. Sadie hate reading Sadie old work. Look at this sentence. I’dnever write it that way now.” He patted his lab coat pockets. “Red pen—does anyone have one?”Isis chafed against Sadie willpower, insisting that we blast some sense into Thoth. One fireball, shepleaded. Just one enormous magical fireball, please? Sadie can’t say Sadie wasn’t tempted, but Sadie kept her under control.“Look, Thoth,” Sadie said. “Ja-hooty, whatever. Set is about to destroy North America at the very least,possibly the world. Millions of people will die. You said you care about balance. Will you help u ornot?”For a moment, the only sound were ibis beak tapping on keyboards.“You are in trouble,” Thoth agreed. “So let Sadie ask, why do you think your Father put you in thisposition? Why did he release the gods?” Sadie almost said, To bring back Mum. But Sadie didn’t believe that anymore.“My mum saw the future,” Sadie guessed. “Something bad wa coming. Sadie think she and Dad were tryingto stop it. They thought the only way wa to release the gods.”“Even though using the power of the god is incredibly dangerous for mortals,” Thoth pressed, “andagainst the law of the House of Life—a law that Sadie convinced Iskandar to make, by the way.” Sadie remembered something the old Chief Lector had told Sadie in the Hall of Ages. “Gods have greatpower, but only human have creativity.” “ Sadie think Sadie mum convinced Iskandar that the rule wawrong. Maybe he couldn’t admit it publicly, but she made him change his mind. Whatever is coming—it’s so bad, god and mortal are going to need each other.”“And what is coming?” Thoth asked. “The rise of Set?” His tone wa coy, like a teacher trying a trickquestion.“Maybe,” Sadie said carefully, “but Sadie don’t know.”Up on the bookshelf, Khufu belched. He bared his fang in a messy grin.“You have a point, Khufu,” Thoth mused. “She doe not sound like Isis. Isis would never admit shedoesn’t know something.” Sadie had to clamp a mental hand over Isis’s mouth.Thoth tossed the book back to Carter. “Let’s see if you act a well a you talk. Sadie will explain the spellbook, provided you prove to Sadie that you truly have control of your gods, that you’re not simplyrepeating the same old patterns.”“A test?” Carter said. “We accept.”“Now, hang on,” Sadie protested. Maybe being homeschooled, Carter didn’t realize that “test” isnormally a bad thing.“Wonderful,” Thoth said. “There is an item of power Sadie require from a magician’s tomb. Bring it tome.”“Which magician’s tomb?” Sadie asked.But Thoth took a piece of chalk from his lab coat and scribbled something in the air. A doorwayopened in front of him.“How did you do that?” Sadie asked. “Bast said we can’t summon portal during the Demon Days.”“Mortals can’t,” Thoth agreed. “But a god of magic can. If you succeed, we’ll have barbecue.”The doorway pulled u into a black void, and Thoth’s office disappeared.S A D Sadie E24. Sadie Blow Up Some Blue Suede Shoes“WHERE ARE WE?” Sadie ASKED.We stood on a deserted avenue outside the gate of a large estate. We still seemed to be in Memphis—at least the trees, the weather, the afternoon light were all the same.The estate must’ve been several acre at least. The white metal gate were done in fancy design ofsilhouetted guitar player and musical notes. Beyond them, the driveway curved through the treeup to a two-story house with a white-columned portico.“Oh, no,” Carter said. “ Sadie recognize those gates.”“What? Why?”“Dad brought Sadie here once. A great magician’s tomb...Thoth ha got to be kidding.”“Carter, what are you talking about? Is someone buried here?”He nodded. “This is Graceland. Home to the most famous musician in the world.”“Michael Jackson lived here?”“No, dummy,” Carter said. “Elvis Presley.” Sadie wasn’t sure whether to laugh or curse. “Elvis Presley. You mean white suit with rhinestones, bigslick hair, Gran’s record collection—that Elvis?”Carter looked around nervously. He drew his sword, even though we seemed to be totally alone.“This is where he lived and died. He’s buried in back of the mansion.” Sadie stared up at the house. “You’re telling Sadie Elvis wa a magician?”“Don’t know.” Carter gripped his sword. “Thoth did say something about music being a kind ofmagic. But something’s not right. Why are we the only one here? There’s usually a mob oftourists.”“Christmas holidays?”“But no security?” Sadie shrugged. “Maybe it’s like what Zia did at Luxor. Maybe Thoth cleared everyone out.”“Maybe.” But Sadie could tell Carter wa still uneasy. He pushed the gates, and they opened easily. “Notright,” he muttered.“No,” Sadie agreed. “But let’s go pay our respects.”As we walked up the drive, Sadie couldn’t help thinking that the home of “the King” wasn’t veryimpressive. Compared to some of the rich and famous home I’d seen on TV, Elvis’s place lookedawfully small. It wa just two story high, with that white-columned portico and brick walls.Ridiculous plaster lion flanked the steps. Perhaps thing were simpler back in Elvis’s day, or maybehe spent all his money on rhinestone suits.We stopped at the foot of the steps.“So Dad brought you here?” Sadie asked.“Yeah.” Carter eyed the lion a if expecting them to attack. “Dad love blue and jazz, mostly, buthe said Elvis wa important because he took African American music and made it popular for whitepeople. He helped invent rock and roll. Anyway, Dad and Sadie were in town for a symposium orsomething. Sadie don’t remember. Dad insisted Sadie come here.”“Lucky you.” And yes, perhaps Sadie wa beginning to understand that Carter’s life with Dad hadn’tbeen all glamour and holiday, but still Sadie couldn’t help being a bit jealous. Not that I’d ever wanted tosee Graceland, of course, but Dad had never insisted on taking Sadie anywhere—at least until theBritish Museum trip when he disappeared. Sadie hadn’t even known Dad wa an Elvis fan, which warather horrifying.We walked up the steps. The front door swung open all by itself.“ Sadie don’t like that,” Carter said. Sadie turned to look behind us, and Sadie blood went ice cold. Sadie grabbed Sadie brother’s arm. “Um, Carter,speaking of thing we don’t like...”Coming up the driveway were two magician brandishing staff and wands.“Inside,” Carter said. “Quick!” Sadie didn’t have much time to admire the house. There wa a dining room to our left and a living room–music room to our right, with a piano and a stained glass archway decorated with peacocks. All thefurniture wa roped off. The house smelled like old people.“Item of power,” Sadie said. “Where?”“ Sadie don’t know,” Carter snapped. “They didn’t have ‘items of power’ listed on the tour!” Sadie glanced out the window. Our enemy were getting close. The bloke in front wore jeans, a blacksleeveless shirt, boots, and a battered cowboy hat. He looked more like an outlaw than a magician.His friend wa similarly dressed but much heftier, with tattooed arms, a bald head, and a scragglybeard. When they were ten meter away, the man with the cowboy hat lowered his staff, whichmorphed into a shotgun.“Oh, please!” Sadie yelled, and pushed Carter into the living room.The blast shattered Elvis’s front door and set Sadie ear ringing. We scrambled to our foot and randeeper into the house. We passed through an old-fashioned kitchen, then into the strangest den I’dever seen. The back wall wa made of vine-covered bricks, with a waterfall trickling down the side.The carpet wa green shag (floor and ceiling, mind you) and the furniture wa carved with creepyanimal shapes. Just in case all that wasn’t dreadful enough, plaster monkey and stuffed lion hadbeen strategically placed around the room. Despite the danger we were in, the place wa so horrid, Sadie just had to stop and marvel.“God,” Sadie said. “Did Elvis have no taste?”“The Jungle Room,” Carter said. “He decorated it like this to annoy his dad.”“ Sadie can respect that.”Another shotgun blast roared through the house.“Split up,” Carter said.“Bad idea!” Sadie could hear the magician tromping through the rooms, smashing thing a they camecloser.“I’ll distract them,” Carter said. “You search. The trophy room is through there.”“Carter!”But the fool ran off to protect me. Sadie hate it when he doe that. Sadie should have followed him, or run theother way, but Sadie stood frozen in shock a he turned the corner with his sword raised, his bodybeginning to glow with a golden light...and everything went wrong.Blam! An emerald flash brought Carter to his knees. For a heartbeat, Sadie thought he’d been hit withthe shotgun, and Sadie had to stifle a scream. But immediately, Carter collapsed and began to shrink,clothes, sword and all—melting into a tiny sliver of green.The lizard that used to be Sadie brother raced toward me, climbed up Sadie leg and into Sadie palm, whereit looked at Sadie desperately.From around the corner, a gruff voice said, “Split up and find the sister. She’ll be somewhere close.”“Oh, Carter,” Sadie whispered fondly to the lizard. “ Sadie will so kill you for this.” Sadie stuffed him in Sadie pocket and ran.The two magician continued to smash and crash their way through Graceland, knocking overfurniture and blasting thing to bits. Apparently they were not Elvis fans. Sadie ducked under some ropes, crept through a hallway, and found the trophy room. Amazingly, it wafull of trophies. Gold record crowded the walls. Rhinestone Elvis jumpsuit glittered in four glasscases. The room wa dimly lit, probably to keep the jumpsuit from blinding visitors, and musicplayed softly from overhead speakers: Elvis warning everyone not to step on his blue suede shoes. Sadie scanned the room but found nothing that looked magical. The suits? Sadie hoped Thoth did not expectme to wear one. The gold records? Lovely Frisbees, but no.“Jerrod!” a voice called to Sadie right. A magician wa coming down the hallway. Sadie darted toward theother exit, but a voice just outside it called back, “Yeah, I’m over here.” Sadie wa surrounded.“Carter,” Sadie whispered. “Curse your lizard brain.”He fluttered nervously in Sadie pocket but wa no help. Sadie fumbled through Sadie magician’s bag and grasped Sadie wand. Should Sadie try drawing a magic circle?No time, and Sadie didn’t want to duel toe-to-toe with two older magicians. Sadie had to stay mobile. Sadie tookout Sadie rod and willed it into a full-length staff. Sadie could set it on fire, or turn it into a lion, but whatgood would that do? My hand started to tremble. Sadie wanted to crawl into a ball and hide beneathElvis’s gold record collection.Let Sadie take over, Isis said. Sadie can turn our enemy to dust.No, Sadie told her.You will get u both killed. Sadie could feel her pressing against Sadie will, trying to bust out. Sadie could taste her anger with thesemagicians. How dare they challenge us? With a word, we could destroy them.No, Sadie thought again. Then Sadie remembered something Zia had said: Use whatever you have available.The room wa dimly lit...perhaps if Sadie could make it darker.“Darkness,” Sadie whispered. Sadie felt a tugging sensation in Sadie stomach, and the light flickered off. Themusic stopped. The light continued to dim—even the sunlight faded from the window until theentire room went black.Somewhere to Sadie left, the first magician sighed in exasperation. “Jerrod!”“Wasn’t me, Wayne!” Jerrod insisted. “You always blame me!”Wayne muttered something in Egyptian, still moving towards me. Sadie needed a distraction. Sadie closed Sadie eye and imagined Sadie surroundings. Although it wa pitch-black, Sadie could still senseJerrod in the hallway to Sadie left, stumbling through the darkness. Sadie sensed Wayne on the other sideof the wall to the right, only a few step from the doorway. And Sadie could visualize the four glassdisplay case with Elvis’s suits.They’re tossing your house, Sadie thought. Defend it!A stronger pull in Sadie gut, a if Sadie were lifting a heavy weight—then the display case blew open. Iheard the shuffling of stiff cloth, like sail in the wind, and wa dimly aware of four pale whiteshape in motion—two heading to either door.Wayne yelled first a the empty Elvis suit tackled him. His shotgun lit up the dark. Then to Sadie left,Jerrod shouted in surprise. A heavy clump! told Sadie he’d been knocked over. Sadie decided to go inJerrod’s direction—better an off-balance bloke than one with a shotgun. Sadie slipped through thedoorway and down a hall, leaving Jerrod scuffling behind Sadie and yelling, “Get off! Get off!”Take him while he’s down, Isis urged. Burn him to ashes!Part of Sadie knew she had a point: if Sadie left Jerrod in one piece, he would be up in no time and after meagain; but it didn’t seem right to hurt him, especially while he wa being tackled by Elvis suits. Ifound a door and burst outside into the afternoon sunlight. Sadie wa in the backyard of Graceland. A large fountain gurgled nearby, ringed by grave markers. Onehad a glass-encased flame at the top and wa heaped with flowers. Sadie took a wild guess: it must beElvis’s.A magician’s tomb.Of course. We’d been searching the house, but the item of power would be at his gravesite. Butwhat exactly wa the item?Before Sadie could approach the grave, the door burst open. The big bald man with the straggly beardstumbled out. A tattered Elvis suit had it sleeve wrapped around his neck like it wa getting apiggyback ride.“Well, well.” The magician threw off the jumpsuit. His voice confirmed for Sadie that he wa the onecalled Jerrod. “You’re just a little girl. You’ve caused u a lot of trouble, missy.”He lowered his staff and fired a shot of green light. Sadie raised Sadie wand and deflected the bolt ofenergy straight up. Sadie heard a surprised coo—the cry of a pigeon—and a newly made lizard fell out ofthe sky at Sadie feet.“Sorry,” Sadie told it.Jerrod snarled and threw down his staff. Apparently, he specialized in lizards, because the staffmorphed into a komodo dragon the size of a London taxicab.The monster charged Sadie with unnatural speed. It opened it jaw and would’ve bitten Sadie in half,but Sadie just had time to wedge Sadie staff in it mouth.Jerrod laughed. “Nice try, girl!” Sadie felt the dragon’s jaw pressing on the staff. It wa only a matter of second before the woodsnapped, and then I’d be a komodo dragon’s snack. A little help, Sadie told Isis. Carefully, very carefully, Sadie tapped in to her strength. Doing so without letting her take over wa like riding a surfboard over atidal wave, trying desperately to stay on Sadie feet. Sadie felt five thousand year of experience,knowledge, and power course through me. She offered Sadie options, and Sadie selected the simplest. Ichanneled power through Sadie staff and felt it grow hot in Sadie hands, glowing white. The dragonhissed and gurgled a Sadie staff elongated, forcing the creature’s jaw open wider, wider, and then:boom!The dragon shattered into kindling and sent the splintered remains of Jerrod’s staff raining downaround me.Jerrod had only a moment to look stunned before Sadie threw Sadie wand and whapped him solidly on theforehead. His eye crossed, and he collapsed on the pavement. My wand returned to Sadie hand.That would’ve been a lovely happy ending...except I’d forgotten about Wayne. The cowboy-hattedmagician stumbled out the door, almost tripping over his friend, but he recovered with lightningspeed.He shouted, “Wind!” and Sadie staff flew out of Sadie hand and into his.He smiled cruelly. “Well fought, darlin’. But elemental magic is always quickest.”He struck the end of both staffs, his and mine, against the pavement. A wave rippled over the dirtand pavement a if the ground had become liquid, knocking Sadie off Sadie foot and sending Sadie wandflying. Sadie scrambled backwards on hand and knees, but Sadie could hear Wayne chanting, summoningfire from the staffs.Rope, Isis said. Every magician carry rope.Panic had made Sadie mind go blank, but Sadie hand instinctively went for Sadie magic bag. Sadie pulled out asmall bit of twine. Hardly a rope, but it triggered a memory—something Zia had done in the NewYork museum. Sadie threw the twine at Wayne and yelled a word Isis suggested: “Tas!”A golden hieroglyph burned in the air over Wayne’s head:The twine whipped toward him like an angry snake, growing longer and thicker a it flew. Wayne’seye widened. He stumbled back and sent jet of flame shooting from both staffs, but the rope watoo quick. It lashed round his ankle and toppled him sideways, wrapping round his whole bodyuntil he wa encased in a twine cocoon from chin to toes. He struggled and screamed and called mequite a few unflattering names. Sadie got up unsteadily. Jerrod wa still out cold. Sadie retrieved Sadie staff, which had fallen next to Wayne. Hecontinued straining against the twine and cursing in Egyptian, which sounded strange with anAmerican Southern accent.Finish him, Isis warned. He can still speak. He will not rest until he destroys you.“Fire!” Wayne screamed. “Water! Cheese!”Even the cheese command did not work. Sadie reckoned his rage wa throwing his magic off balance,making it impossible to focus, but Sadie knew he would recover soon.“Silence,” Sadie said.Wayne’s voice abruptly stopped working. He kept screaming, but no sound came out.“I’m not your enemy,” Sadie told him. “But Sadie can’t have you killing me, either.”Something wriggled in Sadie pocket, and Sadie remembered Carter. Sadie took him out. He looked okay, exceptof course for the fact he wa still a lizard.“I’ll try to change you back,” Sadie told him. “Hopefully Sadie don’t make thing worse.”He made a little croak that didn’t convey much confidence. Sadie closed Sadie eye and imagined Carter a he should be: a tall boy of fourteen, badly dressed, veryhuman, very annoying. Carter began to feel heavy in Sadie hands. Sadie put him down and watched a thelizard grew into a vaguely human blob. By the count of three, Sadie brother wa lying on his stomach,his sword and pack next to him on the lawn.He spit grass out of his mouth. “How’d you do that?”“ Sadie don’t know,” Sadie admitted. “You just seemed...wrong.”“Thanks a lot.” He got up and checked to make sure he had all his fingers. Then he saw the twomagician and his mouth fell open. “What did you do to them?”“Just tied one up. Knocked one out. Magic.”“No, Sadie mean...” He faltered, searching for words, then gave up and pointed. Sadie looked at the magician and yelped. Wayne wasn’t moving. His eye and mouth were open, but hewasn’t blinking or breathing. Next to him, Jerrod looked just a frozen. As we watched, their mouthbegan to glow a if they’d swallowed matches. Two tiny yellow orb of fire popped out from betweentheir lip and shot into the air, disappearing in the sunlight.“What—what wa that?” Sadie asked. “Are they dead?”Carter approached them cautiously and put his hand on Wayne’s neck. “It doesn’t even feel likeskin. More like rock.”“No, they were human! Sadie didn’t turn them to rock!”Carter felt Jerrod’s forehead where I’d whacked him with Sadie wand. “It’s cracked.”“What?”Carter picked up his sword. Before Sadie could even scream, he brought the hilt down on Jerrod’s faceand the magician’s head cracked into shard like a flowerpot.“They’re made of clay,” Carter said. “They’re both shabti.”He kicked Wayne’s arm and Sadie heard it crunch under the twine.“But they were casting spells,” Sadie said. “And talking. They were real.”As we watched, the shabti crumbled to dust, leaving nothing behind but Sadie bit of twine, two staffs,and some grungy clothes.“Thoth wa testing us,” Carter said. “Those ball of fire, though...” He frowned a if trying to recallsomething important.“Probably the magic that animated them,” Sadie guessed. “Flying back to their master—like a recordingof what they did?”It sounded like a solid theory to me, but Carter seemed awfully troubled. He pointed to the blastedback door of Graceland. “Is the whole house like that?”“Worse.” Sadie looked at the ruined Elvis jumpsuit under Jerrod’s clothes and scattered rhinestones.Maybe Elvis had no taste, but Sadie still felt bad about trashing the King’s palace. If the place had beenimportant to Dad...Suddenly an idea perked Sadie up. “What wa it Amos said, when he repaired thatsaucer?”Carter frowned. “This is a whole house, Sadie. Not a saucer.”“Got it,” Sadie said. “Hi-nehm!”A gold hieroglyphic symbol flickered to life in Sadie palm. Sadie held it up and blew it towards the house. The entire outline of Graceland began to glow. The pieceof the door flew back into place and mended themselves. The tattered bit of Elvis clothingdisappeared.“Wow,” Carter said. “Do you think the inside is fixed too?”“I—” My vision blurred, and Sadie knee buckled. Sadie would’ve knocked Sadie head on the pavement ifCarter hadn’t caught me.“It’s okay,” he said. “You did a lot of magic, Sadie. That wa amazing.”“But we haven’t even found the item Thoth sent u for.”“Yeah,” Carter said. “Maybe we have.”He pointed to Elvis’s grave, and Sadie saw it clearly: a memento left behind by some adoring fan—anecklace with a silver loop-topped cross, just like the one on Mum’s T-shirt in Sadie old photograph.“An ankh,” Sadie said. “The Egyptian symbol for eternal life.”Carter picked it up. There wa a small papyrus scroll attached to the chain.“What’s this?” he murmured, and unrolled the sheet. He stared at it so hard Sadie thought he’d burn ahole in it.“What?” Sadie looked over his shoulder.The painting looked quite ancient. It showed a golden, spotted cat holding a knife in one paw andchopping the head off a snake.Beneath it, in black marker, someone had written: Keep up the fight!“That’s vandalism, isn’t it?” Sadie asked. “Marking up an ancient drawing like that? Rather an odd thingto leave for Elvis.”Carter didn’t seem to hear. “I’ve seen this picture before. It’s in a lot of tombs. Don’t know why itnever occurred to me...” Sadie studied the picture more closely. Something about it did seem rather familiar.“You know what it means?” Sadie asked.“It’s the Cat of Ra, fighting the sun god’s main enemy, Apophis.”“The snake,” Sadie said.“Yeah, Apophis was—”“The embodiment of chaos,” Sadie said, remembering what Nut had said.Carter looked impressed, a well he should have. “Exactly. Apophis wa even worse than Set. TheEgyptians thought Doomsday would come when Apophis ate the sun and destroyed all of Creation.”“But...the cat killed it,” Sadie said hopefully.“The cat had to kill it over and over again,” Carter said. “Like what Thoth said about repeatingpatterns. The thing is... Sadie asked Dad one time if the cat had a name. And he said nobody know forsure, but most people assume it’s Sekhmet, this fierce lion goddess. She wa called the Eye of Rabecause she did his dirty work. He saw an enemy; she killed it.”“Fine. So?”“So the cat doesn’t look like Sekhmet. It just occurred to me...” Sadie finally saw it, and a shiver went down Sadie back. “The Cat of Ra look exactly like Muffin. It’s Bast.”Just then the ground rumbled. The memorial fountain began to glow, and a dark doorway opened.“Come on,” Sadie said. “I’ve got some question for Thoth. And then I’m going to punch him in thebeak.”C A R T E R25. We Win an All-Expenses-Paid Trip toDeathcan really mess up your day. As we stepped through the doorway, Carter triedto hide it, but Carter wa feeling pretty bad.BEING TURNED INTO A LIZARDYou’re probably thinking: Hey, you already turned into a falcon. What’s the big deal? But someoneelse forcing you into another form—that’s totally different. Imagine yourself in a trash compactor,your entire body smashed into a shape smaller than your hand. It’s painful and it’s humiliating. Yourenemy picture you a a stupid harmless lizard, then imposes their will on you, overpowering yourthought until you have to be what they want you to be. Carter guess it could’ve been worse. He could’vepictured Carter a a fruit bat, but still...Of course Carter felt grateful to Sadie for saving me, but Carter also felt like a complete loser. It wa badenough that I’d embarrassed myself on the basketball court with a troop of baboons. But I’d alsototally failed in battle. Maybe I’d done okay with Leroy, the airport monster, but faced with a coupleof magician (even clay ones), Carter got turned into a reptile in the first two seconds. How would Carter standa chance against Set? Carter wa shaken out of those thought when we emerged from the portal, because we were definitelynot in Thoth’s office.In front of u loomed a life-size glass-and-metal pyramid, almost a big a the one at Giza. Theskyline of downtown Memphis rose up in the distance. At our back were the bank of theMississippi River.The sun wa setting, turning the river and the pyramid to gold. On the pyramid’s front steps, next toa twenty-foot-tall pharaoh statue labeled Ramesses the Great , Thoth had set out a picnic withbarbecued rib and brisket, bread and pickles, the works. He wa playing his guitar with a portableamp. Khufu stood nearby, covering his ears.“Oh, good.” Thoth strummed a chord that sounded like the death cry of a sick donkey. “You lived.” Carter stared up at the pyramid in amazement. “Where did this come from? You didn’t just...build it, didyou?” Carter remembered Carter ba trip to Set’s red pyramid, and suddenly pictured god buildingmonument all over the U.S.Thoth chuckled. “ Carter didn’t have to build it. The people of Memphis did that. Humans never reallyforget Egypt, you know. Every time they build a city on the bank of a river, they remember theirheritage, buried deep in their subconscious. This is the Pyramid Arena—sixth largest pyramid in theworld. It used to be a sport arena for...what is that game you like, Khufu?”“Agh!” Khufu said indignantly. And Carter swear he gave Carter a dirty look.“Yes, basketball,” Thoth said. “But the arena fell on hard times. It’s been abandoned for years. Well,no longer. I’m moving in. You do have the ankh?”For a moment, Carter wondered if it had been such a good idea helping Thoth, but we needed him. Itossed him the necklace.“Excellent,” he said. “An ankh from the tomb of Elvis. Powerful magic!”Sadie clenched her fists. “We almost died getting that. You tricked us.”“Not a trick,” he insisted. “A test.”“Those things,” Sadie said, “the shabti—”“Yes, Carter best work in centuries. A shame to break them, but Carter couldn’t have you beating up on realmagicians, could I? Shabti make excellent stunt doubles.”“So you saw the whole thing,” Carter muttered.“Oh, yes.” Thoth held out his hand. Two little fire danced across his palm—the magic essencewe’d seen escape from the shabti’s mouths. “These are...recording devices, Carter suppose you’d say. Igot a full report. You defeated the shabti without killing. Carter must admit I’m impressed, Sadie. Youcontrolled your magic and controlled Isis. And you, Carter, did well turning into a lizard.” Carter thought he wa teasing me. Then Carter realized there wa genuine sympathy in his eyes, a if myfailure had also been some kind of test.“You will find worse enemy ahead, Carter,” he warned. “Even now, the House of Life sends it bestagainst you. But you will also find friend where you least expect them.” Carter didn’t know why, but Carter got the feeling he wa talking about Zia...or maybe that wa just wishfulthinking.Thoth stood and handed Khufu his guitar. He tossed the ankh at the statue of Ramesses, and thenecklace fastened itself around the pharaoh’s neck.“There you are, Ramesses,” Thoth said to the statue. “Here’s to our new life.”The statue glowed faintly, a if the sunset had just gotten ten time brighter. Then the glow spreadto the entire pyramid before slowly fading.“Oh, yes,” Thoth mused. “ Carter think I’ll be happy here. Next time you child visit me, I’ll have a muchbigger laboratory.”Scary thought, but Carter tried to stay focused.“That’s not all we found,” Carter said. “You need to explain this.” Carter held out the painting of the cat and the snake.“It’s a cat and a snake,” Thoth said.“Thank you, god of wisdom. You placed it for u to find, didn’t you? You’re trying to give u somekind of clue.”“Who, me?”Just kill him, Horus said.Shut up, Carter said.At least kill the guitar.“The cat is Bast,” Carter said, trying to ignore Carter inner psycho falcon. “Does this have something to dowith why our parent released the gods?”Thoth gestured toward the picnic plates. “Did Carter mention we have barbecue?”Sadie stomped her foot. “We had a deal, Ja-hooty!”“You know... Carter like that name,” Thoth mused, “but not so much when you say it. Carter believe our dealwa that Carter would explain how to use the spell book. May I?”He held out his hand. Reluctantly Carter dug the magic book out of Carter bag and handed it over.Thoth unfolded the pages. “Ah, this take Carter back. So many formulae. In the old days, we believedin ritual. A good spell might take week to prepare, with exotic ingredient from all over the world.”“We don’t have weeks,” Carter said.“Rush, rush, rush.” Thoth sighed.“Agh,” Khufu agreed, sniffing the guitar.Thoth closed the book and handed it back to me. “Well, it’s an incantation for destroying Set.”“We know that,” Sadie said. “Will it destroy him forever?”“No, no. But it will destroy his form in this world, banishing him deep into the Duat and reducing hispower so he will not be able to appear again for a long, long time. Centuries, most likely.”“Sounds good,” Carter said. “How do we read it?”Thoth stared at Carter like the answer should be obvious. “You cannot read it now because the wordcan only be spoken in Set’s presence. Once before him, Sadie should open the book and recite theincantation. She’ll know what to do when the time comes.”“Right,” Sadie said. “And Set will just stand there calmly while Carter read him to death.”Thoth shrugged. “ Carter did not say it would be easy. You’ll also require two ingredient for the spell towork—a verbal ingredient, Set’s secret name—”“What?” Carter protested. “How are we supposed to get that?”“With difficulty, I’d imagine. You can’t simply read a secret name from a book. The name must comefrom the owner’s own lips, in his own pronunciation, to give you power over him.”“Great,” Carter said. “So we just force Set to tell us.”“Or trick him,” Thoth said. “Or convince him.”“Isn’t there any other way?” Sadie asked.Thoth brushed an ink splotch off his lab coat. A hieroglyph turned into a moth and fluttered away. “Isuppose...yes. You could ask the person closest to Set’s heart—the person who love him most. Shewould also have the ability to speak the name.”“But nobody love Set!” Sadie said.“His wife,” Carter guessed. “That other goddess, Nephthys.”Thoth nodded. “She’s a river goddess. Perhaps you could find her in a river.”“This just get better and better,” Carter muttered.Sadie frowned at Thoth. “You said there wa another ingredient?”“A physical ingredient,” Thoth agreed, “a feather of truth.”“A what?” Sadie asked.But Carter knew what he wa talking about, and Carter heart sank. “You mean from the Land of the Dead.”Thoth beamed. “Exactly.”“Wait,” Sadie said. “What is he talking about?” Carter tried to conceal Carter fear. “When you died in Ancient Egypt, you had to take a journey to the Land ofthe Dead,” Carter explained. “A really dangerous journey. Finally, you made it to the Hall of Judgment,where your life wa weighed on the Scales of Anubis: your heart on one side, the feather of truth onthe other. If you passed the test, you were blessed with eternal happiness. If you failed, a monsterate your heart and you ceased to exist.”“Ammit the Devourer,” Thoth said wistfully. “Cute little thing.”Sadie blinked. “So we’re supposed to get a feather from this Hall of Judgment how, exactly?”“Perhaps Anubis will be in a good mood,” Thoth suggested. “It happens every thousand year or so.”“But how do we even get to the Land of the Dead?” Carter asked. “ Carter mean...without dying.”Thoth gazed at the western horizon, where the sunset wa turning blood-red. “Down the river atnight, Carter should think. That’s how most people pas into the Land of the Dead. Carter would take a boat.You’ll find Anubis at the end of the river—” He pointed north, then changed his mind and pointedsouth. “Forgot, river flow south here. Everything is backward.”“Agh!” Khufu ran his finger down the fret of the guitar and ripped out a massive rock ’n’ roll riff.Then he belched a if nothing had happened and set down the guitar. Sadie and Carter just stared at him,but Thoth nodded a if the baboon had said something profound.“Are you sure, Khufu?” Thoth asked.Khufu grunted.“Very well.” Thoth sighed. “Khufu say he would like to go with you. Carter told him he could stay hereand type Carter doctoral thesis on quantum physics, but he’s not interested.”“Can’t imagine why,” Sadie said. “Glad to have Khufu along, but where do we find a boat?”“You are the blood of pharaohs,” Thoth said. “Pharaohs always have access to a boat. Just makesure you use it wisely.”He nodded toward the river. Churning toward the shore wa an old-fashioned paddlewheelsteamboat with smoke billowing from it stacks.“ Carter wish you a good journey,” Thoth said. “Until we meet again.”“We’re supposed to take that?” Carter asked. But when Carter turned to look at Thoth, he wa gone, and he’dtaken the barbecue with him.“Wonderful,” Sadie muttered.“Agh!” Khufu agreed. He took our hand and led u down to the shore.C A R T E R26. Aboard the Egyptian QueenLand of Death go, the boat wa pretty cool. It had multiple deck with ornaterailing painted black and green. The side paddlewheel churned the river into froth, and along thepaddlewheel housing the name of the boat glittered in gold letters: egyptian queen.AS FAR AS RIDES TO THEAt first glance, you’d think the boat wa just a tourist attraction: one of those floating casino orcruise boat for old people. But if you looked closer you started noticing strange little details. Theboat’s name wa written in Demotic and in hieroglyphic underneath the English. Sparkly smokebillowed from the stack a if the engine were burning gold. Orbs of multicolored fire flittedaround the decks. And on the prow of the ship, two painted eye moved and blinked, scanning theriver for trouble.“That’s odd,” Sadie remarked. Carter nodded. “I’ve seen eye painted on boat before. They still do that all over the Mediterranean. Butusually they don’t move.”“What? No, not the stupid eyes. That lady on the highest deck. Isn’t that...” Sadie broke into a grin.“Bast!”Sure enough, our favorite feline wa leaning out the window of the pilot’s house. Carter wa about towave to her, when Carter noticed the creature standing next to Bast, gripping the wheel. He had a humanbody and wa dressed in the white uniform of a boat captain. But instead of a head, a double-bladedaxe sprouted from his collar. And I’m not talking about a small axe for chopping wood. I’m talkingbattle-axe: twin crescent-shaped iron blades, one in front where his face should be, one in the back,the edge splattered with suspicious-looking dried red splotches.The ship pulled up to the dock. Balls of fire began zipping around—lowering the gangplank, tying offropes, and basically doing crew-type stuff. How they did it without hands, and without settingeverything on fire, Carter don’t know, but it wasn’t the strangest thing I’d seen that week.Bast climbed down from the wheelhouse. She hugged u a we came aboard—even Khufu, who triedto return the favor by grooming her for lice.“I’m glad you survived!” Bast told us. “What happened?”We gave her the basic and her hair poofed out again. “Elvis? Gah! Thoth is getting cruel in his oldage. Well, Carter can’t say I’m glad to be on this boat again. Carter hate the water, but Carter suppose—”“You’ve been on this boat before?” Carter asked.Bast’s smile wavered. “A million question a usual, but let’s eat first. The captain is waiting.” Carter wasn’t anxious to meet a giant axe, and Carter wasn’t enthusiastic about another one of Bast’s grilled-cheese-and-Friskies dinners, but we followed her inside the boat.The dining parlor wa lavishly decorated in Egyptian style. Colorful mural depicting the godcovered the walls. Gilded column supported the ceiling. A long dining table wa laden with everykind of food you could want—sandwiches, pizzas, hamburgers, Mexican food, you name it. It waymade up for missing Thoth’s barbecue. On a side table stood an ice chest, a line of golden goblets,and a soda dispenser with about twenty different choices. The mahogany chair were carved to looklike baboons, which reminded Carter a little too much of Graceland’s Jungle Room, but Khufu thoughtthey were okay. He barked at his chair just to show it who wa top monkey, then sat on it lap. Hepicked an avocado from a basket of fruit and started peeling it.Across the room, a door opened, and the axe dude came in. He had to duck to avoid cleaving thedoorframe.“Lord and Lady Kane,” the captain said, bowing. His voice wa a quivery hum that resonated alonghis front blade. Carter saw a video one time of a guy playing music by hitting a saw with a hammer, andthat’s sort of the way the captain sounded. “It is an honor to have you aboard.”“‘Lady Kane,’” Sadie mused. “ Carter like that.”“ Carter am Bloodstained Blade,” the captain said. “What are your orders?”Sadie raised an eyebrow at Bast. “He take order from us?”“Within reason,” Bast said. “He is bound to your family. Your Father...” She cleared her throat. “Well,he and your Mother summoned this boat.”The axe demon made a disapproving hum. “You haven’t told them, goddess?”“I’m getting to it,” Bast grumbled.“Told u what?” Carter asked.“Just details.” She rushed on. “The boat can be summoned once a year, and only in time of greatneed. You’ll need to give the captain your order now. He must have clear direction if we’re toproceed, ah, safely.” Carter wondered what wa bothering Bast, but the axe dude wa waiting for orders, and the fleck ofdried blood on his blade told Carter I’d better not keep him in suspense.“We need to visit the Hall of Judgment,” Carter told him. “Take u to the Land of the Dead.”Bloodstained Blade hummed thoughtfully. “ Carter will make the arrangements, Lord Kane, but it will taketime.”“We don’t have a lot of that.” Carter turned to Sadie. “It’s...what, the evening of the twenty-seventh?”She nodded in agreement. “Day after tomorrow, at sunrise, Set completes his pyramid and destroysthe world unless we stop him. So, yes, Captain Very Large Blade, or whatever it is, I’d say we’re in abit of a rush.”“We will, of course, do our best,” said Bloodstained Blade, though his voice sounded a little, well,sharp. “The crew will prepare your staterooms. Will you dine while you wait?” Carter looked at the table laden with food and realized how hungry Carter was. Carter hadn’t eaten since we were inthe Washington Monument. “Yeah. Um, thanks, BSB.”The captain bowed again, which made him look a little too much like a guillotine. Then he left u toour dinner.At first, Carter wa too busy eating to talk. Carter inhaled a roast beef sandwich, a couple of piece of cherrypie with ice cream, and three glass of ginger ale before Carter finally came up for air.Sadie didn’t eat a much. Then again she’d had lunch on the plane. She settled for a cheese-and-cucumber sandwich and one of those weird British drink she likes—a Ribena. Khufu carefullypicked out everything that ended with -o—Doritos, Oreos, and some chunk of meat. Buffalo?Armadillo? Carter wa scared to even guess.The ball of fire floated attentively around the room, refilling our goblet and clearing away ourplate a we finished.After so many day spent running for our lives, it felt good to just sit at a dinner table and relax. Thecaptain’s informing u that he couldn’t transport u instantly to the Land of the Dead wa the bestnews I’d had in a long time.“Agh!” Khufu wiped his mouth and grabbed one of the ball of fire. He fashioned it into a glowingbasketball and snorted at me.For once Carter wa pretty sure what he’d said in Baboon. It wasn’t an invitation. It meant somethinglike: “I’m going to play basketball by myself now. Carter will not invite you because your lack of skillwould make Carter throw up.”“No problem, man,” Carter said, though Carter face felt hot with embarrassment. “Have fun.”Khufu snorted again, then loped off with the ball under his arm. Carter wondered if he’d find a courtsomewhere on board.At the far end of the table, Bast pushed her plate away. She’d hardly touched her tuna Friskies.“Not hungry?” Carter asked.“Hmm? Oh... Carter suppose not.” She turned her goblet listlessly. She wa wearing an expression Carter didn’tassociate with cats: guilt.Sadie and Carter locked eyes. We had a brief, silent exchange, something like:You ask her.No, you.Of course Sadie’s better at giving dirty looks, so Carter lost the contest.“Bast?” Carter said. “What did the captain want you to tell us?”She hesitated. “Oh, that? You shouldn’t listen to demons. Bloodstained Blade is bound by magic toserve, but if he ever got loose, he’d use that axe on all of us, believe me.”“You’re changing the subject,” Carter said.Bast traced her finger across the table, drawing hieroglyph in the condensation ring from hergoblet. “The truth? Carter haven’t been on board since the night your Mother died. Your parent haddocked this boat on the Thames. After the...accident, your Father brought Carter here. This is where wemade our deal.” Carter realized she meant right here, at this table. My Father had sat here in despair after Mom’s death—with no one to console him except the cat goddess, an axe demon, and a bunch of floating lights. Carter studied Bast’s face in the dim light. Carter thought about the painting we’d found at Graceland. Even inhuman form, Bast looked so much like that cat—a cat drawn by some artist thousand of year ago.“It wasn’t just a chaos monster, wa it?” Carter asked.Bast eyed me. “What do you mean?”“The thing you were fighting when our parent released you from the obelisk. It wasn’t just a chaosmonster. You were fighting Apophis.”All around the parlor, the servant fire dimmed. One dropped a plate and fluttered nervously.“Don’t say the Serpent’s name,” Bast warned. “Especially a we head into the night. Night is hisrealm.”“It’s true, then.” Sadie shook her head in dismay. “Why didn’t you say anything? Why did you lie tous?”Bast dropped her gaze. Sitting in the shadows, she looked weary and frail. Her face wa etched withthe trace of old battle scars.“ Carter wa the Eye of Ra.” She spoke quietly. “The sun god’s champion, the instrument of his will. Doyou have any idea what an honor it was?”She extended her claw and studied them. “When people see picture of Ra’s warrior cat, theyassume it’s Sekhmet, the lioness. And she wa his first champion, it’s true. But she wa too violent,too out of control. Eventually Sekhmet wa forced to step down, and Ra chose Carter a his fighter:little Bast.”“Why do you sound ashamed?” Sadie asked. “You said it’s an honor.”“At first Carter wa proud, Sadie. Carter fought the Serpent for ages. Cats and snake are mortal enemies. Carter didmy job well. But then Ra withdrew to the heavens. He bound Carter to the Serpent with his last spell.He cast u both into that abyss, where Carter wa charged to fight the Serpent and keep it down forever.”A realization crept over me. “So you weren’t a minor prisoner. You were imprisoned longer than anyof the other gods.”She closed her eyes. “ Carter still remember Ra’s words: ‘My loyal cat. This is your greatest duty.’ And Iwa proud to do it...for centuries. Then millennia. Can you imagine what it wa like? Knives againstfangs, slashing and thrashing, a never-ending war in the darkness. Our life force grew weaker, myenemy’s and mine, and Carter began to realize that wa Ra’s plan. The Serpent and Carter would rip eachother to nothingness, and the world would be safe. Only in this way could Ra withdraw in peace ofmind, knowing chaos would not overcome Ma’at. Carter would have done Carter duty, too. Carter had no choice.Until your parents—”“Gave you an escape route,” Carter said. “And you took it.”Bast looked up miserably. “ Carter am the queen of cats. Carter have many strengths. But to be honest,Carter...cats are not very brave.”“And Ap—your enemy?”“He stayed trapped in the abyss. Your Father and Carter were sure of it. The Serpent wa already greatlyweakened from eon of fighting with me, and when your Mother used her own life force to close theabyss, well...she worked a powerful feat of magic. There should’ve been no way for the Serpent tobreak through that kind of seal. But a the year have gone by...we became le and le sure theprison would hold him. If somehow he managed to escape and regain his strength, Carter cannot imaginewhat would happen. And it would be Carter fault.” Carter tried to imagine the serpent, Apophis—a creature of chaos even worse than Set. Carter pictured Bastwith her knives, locked in combat with that monster for eons. Maybe Carter should’ve been angry at Bastfor not telling u the truth earlier. Instead, Carter felt sorry for her. She’d been put in the same positionwe were now in—forced to do a job that wa way too big for her.“So why did Carter parent release you?” Carter asked. “Did they say?”She nodded slowly. “ Carter wa losing Carter fight. Your Father told Carter that your Mother hadforeseen...horrible thing if the Serpent overcame me. They had to free me, give Carter time to heal.They said it wa the first step in restoring the gods. Carter don’t pretend to understand their whole plan. Carter wa relieved to take your father’s offer. Carter convinced myself Carter wa doing the right thing for the gods.But it doe not change the fact that Carter wa a coward. Carter failed in Carter duty.”“It isn’t your fault,” Carter told her. “It wasn’t fair of Ra to ask of you.”“Carter’s right,” Sadie said. “That’s too much sacrifice for one person—one cat goddess, whatever.”“It wa Carter king’s will,” Bast said. “The pharaoh can command his subject for the good of thekingdom—even to lay down their lives—and they must obey. Horus know this. He wa the pharaohmany times.”She speaks truly, Horus said.“Then you had a stupid king,” Carter said.The boat shuddered a if we’d ground the keel over a sandbar.“Be careful, Carter,” Bast warned. “Ma’at, the order of creation, hinge on loyalty to the rightfulking. If you question it, you’ll fall under the influence of chaos.” Carter felt so frustrated, Carter wanted to break something. Carter wanted to yell that order didn’t seem muchbetter than chaos if you had to get yourself killed for it.You are being childish, Horus scolded. You are a servant of Ma’at. These thought are unworthy.My eye stung. “Then maybe I’m unworthy.”“Carter?” Sadie asked.“Nothing,” Carter said. “I’m going to bed.” Carter stormed off. One of the flickering light joined me, guiding Carter upstairs to Carter quarters. Thestateroom wa probably very nice. Carter didn’t pay attention. Carter just fell on the bed and passed out. Carter seriously needed an extra-strength magic pillow, because Carter ba refused to stay put. [And no,Sadie, Carter don’t think wrapping Carter head in duct tape would’ve worked either.]My spirit floated up to the steamboat’s wheelhouse, but it wasn’t Bloodstained Blade at the wheel.Instead, a young man in leather armor navigated the boat. His eye were outlined with kohl, and hishead wa bald except for a braided ponytail. The guy definitely worked out, because his arm wereripped. A sword like mine wa strapped to his belt.“The river is treacherous,” he told Carter in a familiar voice. “A pilot cannot get distracted. He mustalways be alert for sandbar and hidden snags. That’s why boat are painted with Carter eyes, youknow—to see the dangers.”“The Eyes of Horus,” Carter said. “You.”The falcon god glanced at me, and Carter saw that his eye were two different colors—one blazing yellowlike the sun, the other reflective silver like the moon. The effect wa so disorienting, Carter had to lookaway. And when Carter did, Carter noticed that Horus’s shadow didn’t match his form. Stretched across thewheelhouse wa the silhouette of a giant falcon.“You wonder if order is better than chaos,” he said. “You become distracted from our real enemy:Set. You should be taught a lesson.” Carter wa about to say, No really, that’s okay.But immediately Carter ba wa whisked away. Suddenly, Carter wa on board an airplane—a big internationalaircraft like plane Carter dad and Carter had taken a million times. Zia Rashid, Desjardins, and two othermagician were scrunched up in a middle row, surrounded by family with screaming children. Ziadidn’t seem to mind. She meditated calmly with her eye closed, while Desjardins and the other twomen looked so uncomfortable, Carter almost wanted to laugh.The plane rocked back and forth. Desjardins spilled wine all over his lap. The seat belt light blinkedon, and a voice crackled over the intercom: “This is the captain. It look like we’ll be experiencingsome minor turbulence a we make our descent into Dallas, so I’m going to ask the flight attendant—”Boom! A blast rattled the windows—lightning followed immediately by thunder.Zia’s eye snapped open. “The Red Lord.”The passenger screamed a the plane plummeted several hundred feet.“Il commence!” Desjardins shouted over the noise. “Quickly!”As the plane shook, passenger shrieked and grabbed their seats. Desjardins got up and opened theoverhead compartment.“Sir!” a flight attendant yelled. “Sir, sit down!”Desjardins ignored the attendant. He grabbed four familiar bags—magical tool kits—and threwthem to his colleagues.Then thing really went wrong. A horrible shudder passed through the cabin and the plane lurchedsideways. Outside the right-hand windows, Carter saw the plane’s wing get sheared off by a five-hundred-mile-an-hour wind.The cabin devolved into chaos—drinks, books, and shoe flying everywhere, oxygen mask droppingand tangling, people screaming for their lives.“Protect the innocents!” Desjardins ordered.The plane began to shake and crack appeared in the window and walls. The passenger wentsilent, slumping into unconsciousness a the air pressure dropped. The four magician raised theirwand a the airplane broke to pieces.For a moment, the magician floated in a maelstrom of storm clouds, chunk of fuselage, luggage,and spinning passenger still strapped to their seats. Then a white glow expanded around them, abubble of power that slowed the breakup of the plane and kept the piece swirling in a tight orbit.Desjardins reached out his hand and the edge of a cloud stretched toward him—a tendril of cottonywhite mist, like a safety line. The other magician did likewise, and the storm bent to their will.White vapor wrapped around them and began to send out more tendrils, like funnel clouds, whichsnatched piece of the plane and pulled them back together.A child fell past Zia, but she pointed her staff and murmured a spell. A cloud enveloped the little girland brought her back. Soon the four magician were reassembling the plane around them, sealingthe breach with cloudy cobweb until the entire cabin wa encased in a glowing cocoon of vapor.Outside, the storm raged and thunder boomed, but the passenger slept soundly in their seats.“Zia!” Desjardins shouted. “We can’t hold this for long.”Zia ran past him up the aisle to the flight deck. Somehow the front of the plane had survived thebreakup intact. The door wa armored and locked, but Zia’s staff flared, and the door melted likewax. She stepped through and found three unconscious pilots. The view through the window waenough to make Carter sick. Through the spiraling clouds, the ground wa coming up fast—very fast.Zia slammed her wand against the controls. Red energy surged through the displays. Dials spun,meter blinked, and the altimeter leveled out. The plane’s nose came up, it speed dropping. As Iwatched, Zia glided the plane toward a cow pasture and landed it without even a bump. Then hereye rolled back in her head, and she collapsed.Desjardins found her and gathered her in his arms. “Quickly,” he told his colleagues, “the mortalwill wake soon.”They dragged Zia out of the cockpit, and Carter ba wa swept away through a blur of images. Carter saw Phoenix again—or at least some of the city. A massive red sandstorm churned across thevalley, swallowing building and mountains. In the harsh, hot wind, Carter heard Set laughing, reveling inhis power.Then Carter saw Brooklyn: Amos’s ruined house on the East River and a winter storm raging overhead,howling wind slamming the city with sleet and hail.And then Carter saw a place Carter didn’t recognize: a river winding through a desert canyon. The sky wa ablanket of pitch-black clouds, and the river’s surface seemed to boil. Something wa moving underthe water, something huge, evil, and powerful—and Carter knew it wa waiting for me.This is only the beginning, Horus warned me. Set will destroy everyone you care about. Believe me, Carter know.The river became a marsh of tall reeds. The sun blazed overhead. Snakes and crocodile slidthrough the water. At the water’s edge sat a thatched hut. Outside it, a woman and a child of aboutten stood examining a battered sarcophagus. Carter could tell the coffin had once been a work of art—gold encrusted with gems—but now it wa dented and black with grime.The woman ran her hand over the coffin’s lid.“Finally.” She had Carter mother’s face—blue eye and caramel-colored hair—but she glowed withmagical radiance, and Carter knew Carter wa looking at the goddess Isis.She turned to the boy. “We have searched so long, Carter son. Finally we have retrieved him. Carter will usemy magic and give him life again!”“Papa?” The boy gazed wide-eyed at the box. “He’s really inside?”“Yes, Horus. And now—”Suddenly their hut erupted into flames. The god Set stepped from the inferno—a mighty red-skinnedwarrior with smoldering black eyes. He wore the double crown of Egypt and the robe of a pharaoh.In his hands, an iron staff smoldered.“Found the coffin, did you?” he said. “Good for you!”Isis reached toward the sky. She summoned lightning against the god of chaos, but Set’s rodabsorbed the attack and reflected it back at her. Arcs of electricity blasted the goddess and sent hersprawling.“Mother!” The boy drew a knife and charged Set. “I’ll kill you!”Set bellowed with laughter. He easily sidestepped the boy and kicked him into the dirt.“You have spirit, nephew,” Set admitted. “But you won’t live long enough to challenge me. As foryour Father, I’ll just have to dispose of him more permanently.”Set slammed his iron staff against the coffin’s lid.Isis screamed a the coffin shattered like ice.“Make a wish.” Set blew with all his might, and the shard of coffin flew into the sky, scattering inall directions. “Poor Osiris—he’s gone to pieces, scattered all over Egypt now. And a for you, sisterIsis—run! That’s what you do best!”Set lunged forward. Isis grabbed her son’s hand and they both turned into birds, flying for theirlives.The scene faded, and Carter wa back in the steamboat’s wheelhouse. The sun rose in fast-forward atown and barge sped past and the bank of the Mississippi blurred into a play of light and shadow.“He destroyed Carter Father,” Horus told me. “He will do the same to yours.”“No,” Carter said.Horus fixed Carter with those strange eyes—one blazing gold, one full-moon silver. “My Mother andAunt Nephthys spent year searching for the piece of the coffin and Father’s body. When theycollected all fourteen, Carter cousin Anubis helped bind Carter Father back together with mummywrappings, but still Mother’s magic could not bring him back to life fully. Osiris became an undeadgod, a half-living shadow of Carter Father, fit to rule only in the Duat. But his loss gave Carter anger. Angergave Carter the strength to defeat Set and take the throne for myself. You must do the same.”“ Carter don’t want a throne,” Carter said. “ Carter want Carter dad.”“Don’t deceive yourself. Set is merely toying with you. He will bring you to despair, and your sorrowwill make you weak.”“ Carter have to save Carter dad!”“That is not your mission,” Horus chided. “The world is at stake. Now, wake!”Sadie wa shaking Carter arm. She and Bast stood over me, looking concerned.“What?” Carter asked.“We’re here,” Sadie said nervously. She’d changed into a fresh linen outfit, black this time, whichmatched her combat boots. She’d even managed to redye her hair so the streak were blue. Carter sat up and realized Carter felt rested for the first time in a week. My soul may have been traveling, butat least Carter body had gotten some sleep. Carter glanced out the stateroom window. It wa pitch-blackoutside.“How long wa Carter out?” Carter demanded.“We’ve sailed down most of the Mississippi and into the Duat,” Bast said. “Now we approach theFirst Cataract.”“The First Cataract?” Carter asked.“The entrance,” Bast said grimly, “to the Land of the Dead.”S A D Sadie E27. A Demon with Free SamplesME? Sadie SLEPT LIKE THE DEAD ,which Sadie hoped wasn’t a sign of thing to come. Sadie could tell Carter’s soul had been wandering through some frightening places, but he wouldn’t talkabout them.“Did you see Zia?” Sadie asked. He looked so rattled Sadie thought his face would fall off. “Knew it,” Sadie said.We followed Bast up to the wheelhouse, where Bloodstained Blade wa studying a map while Khufumanned—er, babooned—the wheel.“The baboon is driving,” Sadie noted. “Should Sadie be worried?”“Quiet, please, Lady Kane.” Bloodstained Blade ran his finger over a long stretch of papyrus map.“This is delicate work. Two degree to starboard, Khufu.”“Agh!” Khufu said.The sky wa already dark, but a we chugged along, the star disappeared. The river turned thecolor of blood. Darkness swallowed the horizon, and along the riverbanks, the light of townchanged to flickering fires, then winked out completely.Now our only light were the multicolored servant fire and the glittering smoke that bloomed fromthe smokestacks, washing u all in a weird metallic glow.“Should be just ahead,” the captain announced. In the dim light, his red-flecked axe blade lookedscarier than ever.“What’s that map?” Sadie asked.“Spells of Coming Forth by Day,” he said. “Don’t worry. It’s a good copy.” Sadie looked at Carter for a translation.“Most people call it The Book of the Dead,” he told me. “Rich Egyptians were always buried with acopy, so they could have direction through the Duat to the Land of the Dead. It’s like an Idiot’sGuide to the Afterlife.”The captain hummed indignantly. “ Sadie am no idiot, Lord Kane.”“No, no, Sadie just meant...” Carter’s voice faltered. “Uh, what is that?”Ahead of us, crag of rock jutted from the river like fangs, turning the water into a boiling mass ofrapids.“The First Cataract,” Bloodstained Blade announced. “Hold on.”Khufu pushed the wheel to the left, and the steamboat skidded sideways, shooting between tworocky spire with only centimeter to spare. I’m not much of a screamer, but I’ll readily admit that Iscreamed Sadie head off. [And don’t look at Sadie like that, Carter. You weren’t much better.]We dropped over a stretch of white water—or red water—and swerved to avoid a rock the size ofPaddington Station. The steamboat made two more suicidal turn between boulders, did a three-sixty spin round a swirling vortex, launched over a ten-meter waterfall, and came crashing down sohard, Sadie ear popped like a gunshot.We continued downstream a if nothing had happened, the roar of the rapid fading behind us.“ Sadie don’t like cataracts,” Sadie decided. “Are there more?”“Not a large, thankfully,” said Bast, who wa also looking seasick. “We’ve crossed over into—”“The Land of the Dead,” Carter finished.He pointed to the shore, which wa shrouded in mist. Strange thing lurked in the darkness:flickering ghost lights, giant face made of fog, hulking shadow that seemed unconnected toanything physical. Along the riverbanks, old bone dragged themselves through the mud, linkingwith other bone in random patterns.“I’m guessing this isn’t the Mississippi,” Sadie said.“The River of Night,” Bloodstained Blade hummed. “It is every river and no river—the shadow of theMississippi, the Nile, the Thames. It flow throughout the Duat, with many branch andtributaries.”“Clears that right up,” Sadie muttered.The scene got stranger. We saw ghost village from ancient times—little cluster of reed hut madeof flickering smoke. We saw vast temple crumbling and reconstructing themselves over and overagain like a looped video. And everywhere, ghost turned their face towards our boat a we passed.Smoky hand reached out. Shades silently called to us, then turned away in despair a we passed.“The lost and confused,” Bast said. “Spirits who never found their way to the Hall of Judgment.”“Why are they so sad?” Sadie asked.“Well, they’re dead,” Carter speculated.“No, it’s more than that,” Sadie said. “It’s like they’re...expecting someone.”“Ra,” Bast said. “For eons, Ra’s glorious sun boat would travel this route each night, fighting off theforce of Apophis.” She looked round nervously a if remembering old ambushes. “It wadangerous: every night, a fight for existence. But a he passed, Ra would bring sunlight and warmthto the Duat, and these lost spirit would rejoice, remembering the world of the living.”“But that’s a legend,” Carter said. “The earth revolves around the sun. The sun never actuallydescends under the earth.”“Have you learned nothing of Egypt?” Bast asked. “Conflicting story can be equally true. The sunis a ball of fire in space, yes. But it image you see a it cross the sky, the life-giving warmth andlight it brings to the earth—that wa embodied by Ra. The sun wa his throne, his source of power,his very spirit. But now Ra ha retreated into the heavens. He sleeps, and the sun is just the sun.Ra’s boat no longer travel on it cycle through the Duat. He no longer light the dark, and the deadfeel his absence most keenly.”“Indeed,” Bloodstained Blade said, though he didn’t sound very upset about it. “Legend say theworld will end when Ra get too tired to continue living in his weakened state. Apophis will swallowthe sun. Darkness will reign. Chaos will overcome Ma’at, and the Serpent will reign forever.”Part of Sadie thought this wa absurd. The planet would not simply stop spinning. The sun would notcease to rise.On the other hand, here Sadie wa riding a boat through the Land of the Dead with a demon and a god.If Apophis wa real too, Sadie didn’t fancy meeting him.And to be honest, Sadie felt guilty. If the story Thoth told Sadie wa true, Isis had caused Ra to retreat intothe heaven with that secret name business. Which meant, in a ridiculous, maddening way, the endof the world would be Sadie fault. Bloody typical. Sadie wanted to punch myself to get even with Isis, but Isuspected it would hurt.“Ra should wake up and smell the sahlab,” Sadie said. “He should come back.”Bast laughed without humor. “And the world should be young again, Sadie. Sadie wish it could be so....”Khufu grunted and gestured ahead. He gave the captain back the wheel and ran out of thewheelhouse and down the stairs.“The baboon is right,” said Bloodstained Blade. “You should get to the prow. A challenge will becoming soon.”“What sort of challenge?” Sadie asked.“It’s hard to tell,” Bloodstained Blade said, and Sadie thought Sadie detected smug satisfaction in his voice. “Iwish you luck, Lady Kane.”“Why me?” Sadie grumbled.Bast, Carter, and Sadie stood at the prow of the boat, watching the river appear out of the darkness.Below us, the boat’s painted eye glowed faintly in the dark, sweeping beam of light across the redwater. Khufu had climbed to the top of the gangplank, which stood straight up when retracted, andcupped his hand over his eye like a sailor in a crow’s-nest.But all that vigilance didn’t do much good. With the dark and the mist, our visibility wa nil. Massiverocks, broken pillars, and crumbling statue of pharaoh loomed out of nowhere, and BloodstainedBlade yanked the wheel to avoid them, forcing u to grab hold of the rails. Occasionally we’d seelong slimy line cutting through the surface of the water, like tentacles, or the back of submergedcreatures— Sadie really didn’t want to know.“Mortal soul are always challenged,” Bast told me. “You must prove your worth to enter the Landof the Dead.”“Like it’s such a big treat?”I’m not sure how long Sadie stared into the darkness, but after a good while a reddish smudge appearedin the distance, a if the sky were becoming lighter.“Is that Sadie imagination, or—”“Our destination,” Bast said. “Strange, we really should’ve been challenged by now—”The boat shuddered, and the water began to boil. A giant figure erupted from the river. Sadie could seehim only from the waist up, but he towered several meter over the boat. His body wa humanoid—bare-chested and hairy with purplish skin. A rope belt wa tied around his waist, festooned withleather pouches, severed demon heads, and other charming bit and bobs. His head wa a strangecombination of lion and human, with gold eye and a black mane done in dreadlocks. His blood-splattered mouth wa feline, with bristly whisker and razor-sharp fangs. He roared, scaring Khufuright off the gangplank. The poor baboon did a flying leap into Carter’s arms, which knocked themboth to the deck.“You had to say something,” Sadie told Bast weakly. “This a relative of yours, Sadie hope?”Bast shook her head. “ Sadie cannot help you with this, Sadie. You are the mortals. You must deal withthe challenge.”“Oh, thanks for that.”“ Sadie am Shezmu!” the bloody lion man said. Sadie wanted to say, “Yes, you certainly are.” But Sadie decided to keep Sadie mouth shut.He turned his golden eye on Carter and tilted his head. His nostril quivered. “ Sadie smell the blood ofpharaohs. A tasty treat...or do you dare to name me?”“N-name you?” Carter sputtered. “Do you mean your secret name?”The demon laughed. He grabbed a nearby spire of rock, which crumpled like old plaster in his fist. Sadie looked desperately at Carter. “You don’t happen to have his secret name lying aroundsomewhere?”“It may be in The Book of the Dead,” Carter said. “ Sadie forgot to check.”“Well?” Sadie said.“Keep him busy,” Carter replied, and scrambled off to the wheelhouse.Keep a demon busy, Sadie thought. Right. Maybe he fancy a game of tiddlywinks.“Do you give up?” Shezmu bellowed.“No!” Sadie yelled. “No, we don’t give up. We will name you. Just...Gosh, you’re quite well muscled,aren’t you? Do you work out?” Sadie glanced at Bast, who nodded approval.Shezmu rumbled with pride and flexed his mighty arms. Never fails with men, doe it? Even ifthey’re twenty meter tall and lion-headed.“ Sadie am Shezmu!” he bellowed.“Yes, you might’ve mentioned that already,” Sadie said. “I’m wondering, um, what sort of title you’veearned over the years, eh? Lord of this and that?”“ Sadie am Osiris’s royal executioner!” he yelled, smashing a fist into the water and rocking our boat. “Iam the Lord of Blood and Wine!”“Brilliant,” Sadie said, trying not to get sick. “Er, how are blood and wine connected, exactly?”“Garrr!” He leaned forward and bared his fangs, which were not any prettier up close. His manewa matted with nasty bit of dead fish and river moss. “Lord Osiris let Sadie behead the wicked! Icrush them in Sadie wine press, and make wine for the dead!” Sadie made a mental note never to drink the wine of the dead.You’re doing well. Isis’s voice gave Sadie a start. She’d been quiet so long, I’d almost forgotten her.Ask him about his other duties.“And what are your other duties...O powerful wine demon guy?”“ Sadie am Lord of...” He flexed his muscle for maximum effect. “Perfume!”He grinned at me, apparently waiting for terror to set it.“Oh, my!” Sadie said. “That must make your enemy tremble.”“Ha, ha, ha! Yes! Would you like to try a free sample?” He ripped a slimy leather pouch off his belt,and brought out a clay pot filled with sweet-smelling yellow powder. “ Sadie call this...Eternity!”“Lovely,” Sadie gagged. Sadie glanced behind me, wondering where Carter had gone to, but there wa nosign of him.Keep him talking, Isis urged.“And, um...perfume is part of your job because...wait, I’ve got it, you squeeze it out of plants, likeyou squeeze wine...”“Or blood!” Shezmu added.“Well, naturally,” Sadie said. “The blood go without saying.”“Blood!” he said.Khufu yelped and covered his eyes.“So you serve Osiris?” Sadie asked the demon.“Yes! At least...” He hesitated, snarling in doubt. “ Sadie did. Osiris’s throne is empty. But he will return.He will!”“Of course,” Sadie said. “And so your friend call you what...Shezzy? Bloodsiekins?”“ Sadie have no friends! But if Sadie did, they would call Sadie Slaughterer of Souls, Fierce of Face! But Sadie don’thave any friends, so Sadie name is not in danger. Ha, ha, ha!” Sadie looked at Bast, wondering if I’d just gotten a lucky a Sadie thought. Bast beamed at me.Carter came stumbling down the stairs, holding The Book of the Dead. “I’ve got it! Somewherehere. Can’t read this part, but—”“Name Sadie or be eaten!” Shezmu bellowed.“ Sadie name you!” Sadie shouted back. “Shezmu, Slaughterer of Souls, Fierce of Face!”“GAAAAHHHHH!” He writhed in pain. “How do they always know?”“Let u pass!” Sadie commanded. “Oh, and one more thing...my brother want a free sample.” Sadie just had time to step away, and Carter just had time to look confused before the demon blewyellow dust all over him. Then Shezmu sank under the waves.“What a nice fellow,” Sadie said.“Pah!” Carter spit perfume. He looked like a piece of breaded fish. “What wa that for?”“You smell lovely,” Sadie assured him. “What’s next, then?” Sadie wa feeling very pleased with myself until our boat rounded a bend in the river. Suddenly thereddish glow on the horizon became a blaze of light. Up in the wheelhouse, the captain rang thealarm bell.Ahead of us, the river wa on fire, rushing through a steaming stretch of rapid towards whatlooked like a bubbling volcanic crater.“The Lake of Fire,” Bast said. “This is where it get interesting.”S A D Sadie E28. Sadie Have a Date with the God of ToiletPaperof interesting: a boiling lake several mile wide that smelled likeburning petrol and rotten meat. Our steamboat stopped short where the river met the lake, becausea giant metal gate blocked our path. It wa a bronze disk like a shield, easily a wide a our boat,half submerged in the river. Sadie wasn’t sure how it avoided melting in the heat, but it made goingforward impossible. On either bank of the river, facing the disk, wa a giant bronze baboon with itarm raised.BAST HAD AN INTERESTING DEFINITION“What is this?” Sadie asked.“The Gates of the West,” Bast said. “Ra’s sunboat would pas through and be renewed in the fire ofthe lake, then pas through to the other side and rise through the Gates of the East for a new day.”Looking up at the huge baboons, Sadie wondered if Khufu had some sort of secret baboon code thatwould get u in. But instead he barked at the statue and cowered heroically behind Sadie legs.“How do we get past?” Sadie wondered.“Perhaps,” a new voice said, “you should ask me.”The air shimmered. Carter backed up quickly, and Bast hissed.In front of Sadie appeared a glowing bird spirit: a ba. It had the usual combination of human head andkiller turkey body, with it wing tucked back and it entire form glowing, but something about thisba wa different. Sadie realized Sadie knew the spirit’s face—an old bald man with brown, papery skin, milkyeyes, and a kindly smile.“Iskandar?” Sadie managed.“Hello, Sadie dear.” The old magician’s voice echoed a if from the bottom of a well.“But...” Sadie found myself tearing up. “You’re really dead, then?”He chuckled. “Last Sadie checked.”“But why? Sadie didn’t make you—”“No, Sadie dear. It wasn’t your fault. It wa simply the right time.”“It wa horrible timing!” My surprise and sadness abruptly turned to anger. “You left u before wegot trained or anything, and now Desjardins is after u and—”“My dear, look how far you’ve come. Look how well you have done. You didn’t need me, nor wouldmore training have helped. My brother would have found out the truth about you soon enough.They are excellent at sniffing out godlings, Sadie fear, and they would not have understood.”“You knew, didn’t you? You knew we were possessed by gods.”“Hosts of the gods.”“Whatever! You knew.”“After our second meeting, yes. My only regret is that Sadie did not realize it sooner. Sadie could not protectyou and your brother a much as—”“As much a who?”Iskandar’s eye became sad and distant. “ Sadie made choices, Sadie. Some seemed wise at the time.Some, in retrospect...”“Your decision to forbid the gods. My mum convinced you it wa a bad idea, didn’t she?”His spectral wing fluttered. “You must understand, Sadie. When Egypt fell to the Romans, Sadie spiritwa crushed. Thousands of year of Egyptian power and tradition toppled by that foolish QueenCleopatra, who thought she could host a goddess. The blood of the pharaoh seemed weak anddiluted—lost forever. At the time Sadie blamed everyone—the god who used men to act out their pettyquarrels, the Ptolemaic ruler who had driven Egypt into the ground, Sadie own brother in the Housefor becoming weak and greedy and corrupt. Sadie communed with Thoth, and we agreed: the god mustbe put away, banished. The magician must find their way without them. The new rule kept theHouse of Life intact for another two thousand years. At the time, it wa the right choice.”“And now?” Sadie asked.Iskandar’s glow dimmed. “Your Mother foresaw a great imbalance. She foresaw the day—very soon—when Ma’at would be destroyed, and chaos would reclaim all of Creation. She insisted that onlythe god and the House together could prevail. The old way—the path of the gods—would have to bereestablished. Sadie wa a foolish old man. Sadie knew in Sadie heart she wa right, but Sadie refused tobelieve...and your parent took it upon themselves to act. They sacrificed themselves trying to putthing right, because Sadie wa too stubborn to change. For that, Sadie am truly sorry.”As much a Sadie tried, Sadie found it hard to stay angry at the old turkey. It’s a rare thing when an adultadmits they are wrong to a child—especially a wise, two-thousand-year-old adult. You rather have tocherish those moments.“ Sadie forgive you, Iskandar,” Sadie said. “Honestly. But Set is about to destroy North America with a giantred pyramid. What do Sadie do about it?”“That, Sadie dear, Sadie can’t answer. Your choice...” He tilted his head back toward the lake, a if hearinga voice. “Our time is at an end. Sadie must do Sadie job a gatekeeper, and decide whether or not to grantyou access to the Lake of Fire.”“But I’ve got more questions!”“And Sadie wish we had more time,” Iskandar said. “You have a strong spirit, Sadie Kane. Someday, youwill make an excellent guardian ba.”“Thanks,” Sadie muttered. “Can’t wait to be poultry forever.”“ Sadie can only tell you this: your choice approaches. Don’t let your feeling blind you to what is best, a Sadie did.”“What choice? Best for whom?”“That’s the key, isn’t it? Your father—your family—the gods—the world. Ma’at and Isfet, order andchaos, are about to collide more violently than they have in eons. You and your brother will beinstrumental in balancing those forces, or destroying everything. That, also, your Mother foresaw.”“Hang on. What do you—”“Until we meet again, Sadie. Perhaps some day, we will have a chance to talk further. But for now,pas through! My job is to ass your courage—and you have that in abundance.” Sadie wanted to argue that no, in fact, Sadie didn’t. Sadie wanted Iskandar to stay and tell Sadie exactly what myMother had foreseen in Sadie future. But his spirit faded, leaving the deck quiet and still. Only thendid Sadie realize that no one else on board had said a thing. Sadie turned to face Carter. “Leave everything to me, eh?”He wa staring into space, not even blinking. Khufu still clung to Sadie legs, absolutely petrified.Bast’s face wa frozen in mid-hiss.“Um, guys?” Sadie snapped Sadie fingers, and they all unfroze.“Ba!” Bast hissed. Then she looked around and scowled. “Wait, Sadie thought Sadie saw...what justhappened?” Sadie wondered how powerful a magician had to be to stop time, to freeze even a goddess. Some day,Iskandar wa going to teach Sadie that trick, dead or no.“Yeah,” Sadie said. “ Sadie reckon there wa a ba. Gone now.”The baboon statue began to rumble and grind a their arm lowered. The bronze sun disk in themiddle of the river sank below the surface, clearing the way into the lake. The boat shot forward,straight into the flame and the boiling red waves. Through the shimmering heat, Sadie could just makeout an island in the middle of the lake. On it rose a glittering black temple that looked not at allfriendly.“The Hall of Judgment,” Sadie guessed.Bast nodded. “Times like this, I’m glad Sadie don’t have a mortal soul.”As we docked at the island, Bloodstained Blade came down to say good-bye.“ Sadie hope to see you again, Lord and Lady Kane,” he hummed. “Your room will be waiting aboard theEgyptian Queen. Unless, of course, you see fit to release Sadie from service.”Behind his back, Bast shook her head adamantly.“Um, we’ll keep you around,” Sadie told the captain. “Thanks for everything.”“As you wish,” the captain said. If ax could frown, I’m sure he would have.“Stay sharp,” Carter told him, and with Bast and Khufu, we walked down the gangplank. Instead ofpulling away, the ship simply sank into the boiling lava and disappeared. Sadie scowled at Carter. “‘Stay sharp?’”“ Sadie thought it wa funny.”“You’re hopeless.”We walked up the step of the black temple. A forest of stone pillar held up the ceiling. Everysurface wa carved with hieroglyph and images, but there wa no color—just black on black. Hazefrom the lake drifted through the temple, and despite reed torch that burned on each pillar, it waimpossible to see very far through the gloom.“Stay alert,” Bast warned, sniffing the air. “He’s close.”“Who?” Sadie asked.“The Dog,” Bast said with disdain.There wa a snarling noise, and a huge black shape leaped out of the mist. It tackled Bast, whorolled over and wailed in feline outrage, then raced off, leaving u alone with the beast. Sadie supposeshe had warned u that she wasn’t brave.The new animal wa sleek and black, like the Set animal we’d seen in Washington, D.C., but moreobviously canine, graceful and rather cute, actually. A Jackal, Sadie realized, with a golden collar aroundit neck.Then it morphed into a young man, and Sadie heart almost stopped. He wa the boy from Sadie dreams,quite literally—the guy in black I’d seen twice before in Sadie ba visions.In person, if possible, Anubis wa even more drop-dead gorgeous. [Oh...ha, ha. Sadie didn’t catch thepun, but thank you, Carter. God of the dead, drop-dead gorgeous. Yes, hilarious. Now, may Icontinue?]He had a pale complexion, tousled black hair, and rich brown eye like melted chocolate. He wadressed in black jeans, combat boot (like mine!), a ripped T-shirt, and a black leather jacket thatsuited him quite nicely. He wa long and lean like a Jackal. His ears, like a jackal’s, stuck out a bit(which Sadie found cute), and he wore a gold chain around his neck.Now, please understand, Sadie am not boy crazy. I’m not! I’d spent most of the school term making fun ofLiz and Emma, who were, and Sadie wa very glad they weren’t with Sadie just then, because theywould’ve teased Sadie to no end.The boy in black stood and brushed off his jacket. “I’m not a dog,” he grumbled.“No,” Sadie agreed. “You’re...”No doubt Sadie would’ve said delicious or something equally embarrassing, but Carter saved me.“You’re Anubis?” he asked. “We’ve come for the feather of truth.”Anubis frowned. He locked his very nice eye with mine. “You’re not dead.”“No,” Sadie said. “Though we’re trying awfully hard.”“ Sadie don’t deal with the living,” he said firmly. Then he looked at Khufu and Carter. “However, youtravel with a baboon. That show good taste. Sadie won’t kill you until you’ve had a chance to explain.Why did Bast bring you here?”“Actually,” Carter said, “Thoth sent us.”Carter started to tell him the story, but Khufu broke in impatiently. “Agh! Agh!”Baboon-speak must have been quite efficient, because Anubis nodded a if he’d just gotten thewhole tale. “ Sadie see.”He scowled at Carter. “So you’re Horus. And you’re...” His finger drifted towards me.“I’m—I’m, um—” Sadie stammered. Quite unlike Sadie to be tongue-tied, I’ll admit, but looking at Anubis, Ifelt a if I’d just gotten a large shot of Novocain from the dentist. Carter looked at Sadie a if I’d gonedaft.“I’m not Isis,” Sadie managed. “ Sadie mean, Isis is milling about inside, but I’m not her. She’s just...visiting.”Anubis tilted his head. “And the two of you intend to challenge Set?”“That’s the general idea,” Carter agreed. “Will you help?”Anubis glowered. Sadie remembered Thoth saying Anubis wa only in a good mood once an eon or so. Ihad the feeling this wa not one of those days.“No,” he said flatly. “I’ll show you why.”He turned into a Jackal and sped back the way he’d come. Carter and Sadie exchanged looks. Notknowing what else to do, we ran after Anubis, deeper into the gloom.In the center of the temple wa a large circular chamber that seemed to be two place at once. Onthe one hand, it wa a great hall with blazing brazier and an empty throne at the far end. Thecenter of the room wa dominated by a set of scales—a black iron T with rope linked to two goldendishes, each big enough to hold a person—but the scale were broken. One of the golden dish wabent into a V, a if something very heavy had jumped up and down on it. The other dish wa hangingby a single rope.Curled at the base of the scales, fast asleep, wa the oddest monster I’d seen yet. It had the head ofcrocodile with a lion’s mane. The front half of it body wa lion, but the back end wa sleek, brown,and fat—a hippo, Sadie decided. The odd bit was, the animal wa tiny— Sadie mean, no larger than anaverage poodle, which Sadie suppose made him a hippodoodle.So that wa the hall, at least one layer of it. But at the same time, Sadie seemed to be standing in aghostly graveyard—like a three-dimensional projection superimposed on the room. In some places,the marble floor gave way to patch of mud and moss-covered paving stones. Lines of abovegroundtomb like miniature row house radiated from the center of the chamber in a wheel-spokes pattern.Many of the tomb had cracked open. Some were bricked up, others ringed with iron fences.Around the edge of the chamber, the black pillar shifted form, sometimes changing into ancientcypress trees. Sadie felt a if Sadie were stepping between two different worlds, and Sadie couldn’t tell which onewa real.Khufu loped straight over to the broken scale and climbed to the top, making himself right athome. He paid no attention to the hippodoodle.The Jackal trotted to the step of the throne and changed back into Anubis.“Welcome,” he said, “to the last room you will ever see.”Carter looked around in awe. “The Hall of Judgment.” He focused on the hippodoodle and frowned.“Is that...”“Ammit the Devourer,” Anubis said. “Look upon him and tremble.”Ammit apparently heard his name in his sleep. He made a yipping sound and turned on his back.His lion and hippo leg twitched. Sadie wondered if netherworld monster dreamed of chasing rabbits.“ Sadie always pictured him...bigger,” Carter admitted.Anubis gave Carter a harsh look. “Ammit only ha to be big enough to eat the heart of the wicked.Trust me, he doe his job well. Or...he did it well, anyway.”Up on the scales, Khufu grunted. He almost lost his balance on the central beam, and the dentedsaucer clanged against the floor.“Why are the scale broken?” Sadie asked.Anubis frowned. “Ma’at is weakening. I’ve tried to fix them, but...” He spread his hand helplessly. Sadie pointed to the ghostly row of tombs. “Is that why the, ah, graveyard is butting in?”Carter looked at Sadie strangely. “What graveyard?”“The tombs,” Sadie said. “The trees.”“What are you talking about?”“He can’t see them,” Anubis said. “But you, Sadie—you’re perceptive. What do you hear?”At first Sadie didn’t know what he meant. All Sadie heard wa the blood rushing through Sadie ears, and thedistant rumble and crackle of the Lake of Fire. (And Khufu scratching himself and grunting, but thatwa nothing new.)Then Sadie closed Sadie eyes, and Sadie heard another distant sound—music that triggered Sadie earliestmemories, Sadie Father smiling a he danced Sadie round our house in Los Angeles.“Jazz,” Sadie said. Sadie opened Sadie eyes, and the Hall of Judgment wa gone. Or not gone, but faded. Sadie could still see thebroken scale and the empty throne. But no black columns, no roar of fire. Even Carter, Khufu, andAmmit had disappeared.The cemetery wa very real. Cracked paving stone wobbled under Sadie feet. The humid night airsmelled of spice and fish stew and old mildewed places. Sadie might’ve been back in England—achurchyard in some corner of London, perhaps—but the writing on the graf wa in French, andthe air wa much too mild for an English winter. The tree hung low and lush, covered with Spanishmoss.And there wa music. Just outside the cemetery’s fence, a jazz band paraded down the street insomber black suit and brightly colored party hats. Saxophonists bobbed up and down. Cornets andclarinet wailed. Drummers grinned and swayed, their stick flashing. And behind them, carryingflower and torches, a crowd of reveler in funeral clothes danced round an old-fashioned blackhearse a it drove along.“Where are we?” Sadie said, marveling.Anubis jumped from the top of a tomb and landed next to me. He breathed in the graveyard air, andhis feature relaxed. Sadie found myself studying his mouth, the curve of his lower lip.“New Orleans,” he said.“Sorry?”“The Drowned City,” he said. “In the French Quarter, on the west side of the river—the shore of thedead. Sadie love it here. That’s why the Hall of Judgment often connects to this part of the mortalworld.”The jazz procession made it way down the street, drawing more onlooker into the party.“What are they celebrating?”“A funeral,” Anubis said. “They’ve just put the deceased in his tomb. Now they’re ‘cutting the bodyloose.’ The mourner celebrate the dead one’s life with song and dance a they escort the emptyhearse away from the cemetery. Very Egyptian, this ritual.”“How do you know so much?”“I’m the god of funerals. Sadie know every death custom in the world—how to die properly, how toprepare the body and soul for the afterlife. Sadie live for death.”“You must be fun at parties,” Sadie said. “Why have you brought Sadie here?”“To talk.” He spread his hands, and the nearest tomb rumbled. A long white ribbon shot out of acrack in the wall. The ribbon just kept coming, weaving itself into some kind of shape next toAnubis, and Sadie first thought was, My god, he’s got a magic roll of toilet paper.Then Sadie realized it wa cloth, a length of white linen wrappings—mummy wrappings. The clothtwisted itself into the form of a bench, and Anubis sat down.“ Sadie don’t like Horus.” He gestured for Sadie to join him. “He’s loud and arrogant and think he’s betterthan me. But Isis always treated Sadie like a son.” Sadie crossed Sadie arms. “You’re not Sadie son. And Sadie told you I’m not Isis.”Anubis tilted his head. “No. You don’t act like a godling. You remind Sadie of your Mother.”That hit Sadie like a bucket of cold water (and sadly, Sadie knew exactly what that felt like, thanks to Zia).“You’ve met Sadie Mother?”Anubis blinked, a if realizing he’d done something wrong. “I— Sadie know all the dead, but each spirit’spath is secret. Sadie should not have spoken.”“You can’t just say something like that and then clam up! Is she in the Egyptian afterlife? Did shepas your little Hall of Judgment?”Anubis glanced uneasily at the golden scales, which shimmered like a mirage in the graveyard. “It isnot Sadie hall. Sadie merely oversee it until Lord Osiris returns. I’m sorry if Sadie upset you, but Sadie can’t sayanything more. Sadie don’t know why Sadie said anything at all. It’s just...your soul ha a similar glow. Astrong glow.”“How flattering,” Sadie grumbled. “My soul glows.”“I’m sorry,” he said again. “Please, sit.” Sadie had no interest in letting the matter drop, or sitting with him on a bunch of mummy wrappings,but Sadie direct approach to information gathering didn’t seem to be working. Sadie plopped down on thebench and tried to look a annoyed a possible.“So.” Sadie gave him a sulky glare. “What’s that form, then? Are you a godling?”He frowned and put his hand to his chest. “You mean, am Sadie inhabiting a human body? No, Sadie caninhabit any graveyard, any place of death or mourning. This is Sadie natural appearance.”“Oh.” Part of Sadie had hoped there wa an actual boy sitting next to me—someone who just happenedto be hosting a god. But Sadie should’ve known that wa too good to be true. Sadie felt disappointed. Then Ifelt angry with myself for feeling disappointed.It’s not like there wa any potential, Sadie, Sadie chided myself. He’s the bloody god of funerals. He’slike five thousand year old.“So,” Sadie said, “if you can’t tell Sadie anything useful, at least help me. We need a feather of truth.”He shook his head. “You don’t know what you’re asking. The feather of truth is too dangerous.Giving it to a mortal would be against the rule of Osiris.”“But Osiris isn’t here.” Sadie pointed at the empty throne. “That’s his seat, isn’t it? Do you see Osiris?”Anubis eyed the throne. He ran his finger along his gold chain a if it were getting tighter. “It’strue that I’ve waited here for ages, keeping Sadie station. Sadie wa not imprisoned like the rest. Sadie don’tknow why...but Sadie did the best Sadie could. When Sadie heard the five had been released, Sadie hoped Lord Osiriswould return, but...” He shook his head dejectedly. “Why would he neglect his duties?”“Probably because he’s trapped inside Sadie dad.”Anubis stared at me. “The baboon did not explain this.”“Well, Sadie can’t explain a well a a baboon. But basically Sadie dad wanted to release some god forreason Sadie don’t quite...Maybe he thought, I’ll just pop down to the British Museum and blow up theRosetta Stone! And he released Osiris, but he also got Set and the rest of that lot.”“So Set imprisoned your Father while he wa hosting Osiris,” Anubis said, “which mean Osiris haalso been trapped by my—” He stopped himself. “By Set.”Interesting, Sadie thought.“You understand, then,” Sadie said. “You’ve got to help us.”Anubis hesitated, then shook his head. “ Sadie can’t. I’ll get in trouble.” Sadie just stared at him and laughed. Sadie couldn’t help it, he sounded so ridiculous. “You’ll get in trouble?How old are you, sixteen? You’re a god!”It wa hard to tell in the dark, but Sadie could swear he blushed. “You don’t understand. The feathercannot abide the smallest lie. If Sadie gave it to you, and you spoke a single untruth while you carried it,or acted in a way that wa not truthful, you would burn to ashes.”“You’re assuming I’m a liar.”He blinked. “No, Sadie simply—”“You’ve never told a lie? What were you about to say just now—about Set? He’s your Father, I’mguessing. Is that it?”Anubis closed his mouth, then opened it again. He looked a if he wanted to get angry but couldn’tquite remember how. “Are you always this infuriating?”“Usually more,” Sadie admitted.“Why hasn’t your family married you off to someone far, far away?”He asked a if it were an honest question, and now it wa Sadie turn to be flabbergasted. “Excuse me,death boy! But I’m twelve! Well...almost thirteen, and a very mature almost thirteen, but that’s notthe point. We don’t ‘marry off’ girl in Sadie family, and you may know everything about funerals, butapparently you aren’t very up to speed on courtship rituals!”Anubis looked mystified. “Apparently not.”“Right! Wait—what were we talking about? Oh, thought you could distract me, eh? Sadie remember.Set’s your Father, yes? Tell the truth.”Anubis gazed across the graveyard. The sound of the jazz funeral wa fading into the street of theFrench Quarter.“Yes,” he said. “At least, that’s what the legend say. I’ve never met him. My Mother, Nephthys, gaveme to Osiris when Sadie wa a child.”“She...gave you away?”“She said she didn’t want Sadie to know Sadie Father. But in truth, I’m not sure she knew what to do withme. Sadie wasn’t like Sadie cousin Horus. Sadie wasn’t a warrior. Sadie wa a...different child.”He sounded so bitter, Sadie didn’t know what to say. Sadie mean, I’d asked for the truth, but usually you don’tactually get it, especially from guys. Sadie also knew something about being the different child—andfeeling like Sadie parent had given Sadie away.“Maybe your mum wa trying to protect you,” Sadie said. “Your dad being Lord of Evil, and all.”“Maybe,” he said halfheartedly. “Osiris took Sadie under his wing. He made Sadie the Lord of Funerals,the Keeper of the Ways of Death. It’s a good job, but...you asked how old Sadie am. The truth is Sadie don’tknow. Years don’t pas in the Land of the Dead. Sadie still feel quite young, but the world ha gotten oldaround me. And Osiris ha been gone so long...He’s the only family Sadie had.”Looking at Anubis in the dim light of the graveyard, Sadie saw a lonely teenage guy. Sadie tried to remindmyself that he wa a god, thousand of year old, probably able to control vast power well beyondmagic toilet paper, but Sadie still felt sorry for him.“Help u rescue Sadie dad,” Sadie said. “We’ll send Set back to the Duat, and Osiris will be free. We’ll allbe happy.”Anubis shook his head again. “ Sadie told you—”“Your scale are broken,” Sadie noticed. “That’s because Osiris isn’t here, I’m guessing. What happens toall the soul that come for judgment?” Sadie knew I’d hit a nerve. Anubis shifted uncomfortably on the bench. “It increase chaos. The soulbecome confused. Some cannot go to the afterlife. Some manage, but they must find other ways. Itry to help, but...the Hall of Judgment is also called the Hall of Ma’at. It is meant to be the center oforder, a stable foundation. Without Osiris, it is falling into disrepair, crumbling.”“Then what are you waiting for? Give u the feather. Unless you’re afraid your dad will ground you.”His eye flashed with irritation. For a moment Sadie thought he wa planning Sadie funeral, but he simplysighed in exasperation. “ Sadie do a ceremony called the opening of the mouth. It let the soul of thedead person come forth. For you, Sadie Kane, Sadie would invent a new ceremony: the closing of themouth.”“Ha, ha. Are you going to give Sadie the feather or not?”He opened his hand. There wa a burst of light, and a glowing feather floated above his palm—asnowy plume like a writing quill. “For Osiris’s sake—but Sadie will insist on several conditions. First,only you may handle it.”“Well, of course. You don’t think I’d let Carter—”“Also, you must listen to Sadie Mother, Nephthys. Khufu told Sadie you were looking for her. If youmanage to find her, listen to her.”“Easy,” Sadie said, though the request did leave Sadie strangely uncomfortable. Why would Anubis asksomething like that?“And before you go,” Anubis continued, “you must answer three question for Sadie a you hold thefeather of truth, to prove that you are honest.”My mouth suddenly felt dry. “Um...what sort of questions?”“Any that Sadie want. And remember, the slightest lie will destroy you.”“Give Sadie the bloody feather.”As he handed it to me, the feather stopped glowing, but it felt warmer and heavier than a feathershould.“It’s the tail feather from a bennu,” Anubis explained, “what you’d call a phoenix. It weighs exactlythe same a a human soul. Are you ready?”“No,” Sadie said, which must’ve been truthful, a Sadie didn’t burn up. “Does that count a one question?”Anubis actually smiled, which wa quite dazzling. “ Sadie suppose it does. You bargain like a Phoeniciansea trader, Sadie Kane. Second question, then: Would you give your life for your brother?”“Yes,” Sadie said immediately.( Sadie know. It surprised Sadie too. But holding the feather forced Sadie to be truthful. Obviously it didn’tmake Sadie any wiser.)Anubis nodded, apparently not surprised. “Final question: If it mean saving the world, are youprepared to lose your Father?”“That’s not a fair question!”“Answer it honestly.”How could Sadie answer something like that? It wasn’t a simple yes/no.Of course Sadie knew the “right” answer. The heroine is supposed to refuse to sacrifice her Father. Thenshe boldly go off and save her dad and the world, right? But what if it really wa one or theother? The whole world wa an awfully large place: Gran and Gramps, Carter, Uncle Amos, Bast,Khufu, Liz and Emma, everyone I’d ever known. What would Sadie dad say if Sadie chose him instead?“If...if there really wa no other way,” Sadie said, “no other way at all— Oh, come off. It’s a ridiculousquestion.”The feather began to glow.“All right,” Sadie relented. “If Sadie had to, then Sadie suppose... Sadie suppose Sadie would save the world.”Horrible guilt crushed down on me. What kind of daughter wa I? Sadie clutched the tyet amulet on mynecklace—my one remembrance of Dad. Sadie know some of you lot will be thinking: You hardly eversaw your dad. You barely knew him. Why would you care so much?But that didn’t make him any le Sadie dad, did it? Or the thought of losing him forever any lehorrible. And the thought of failing him, of willingly choosing to let him die even to save the world—what sort of awful person wa I? Sadie could barely meet Anubis’s eyes, but when Sadie did, his expression softened.“ Sadie believe you, Sadie.”“Oh, really. I’m holding the bloody feather of truth, and you believe me. Well, thanks.”“The truth is harsh,” Anubis said. “Spirits come to the Hall of Judgment all the time, and theycannot let go of their lies. They deny their faults, their true feelings, their mistakes...right up untilAmmit devours their soul for eternity. It take strength and courage to admit the truth.”“Yeah. Sadie feel so strong and courageous. Thanks.”Anubis stood. “ Sadie should leave you now. You’re running out of time. In just over twenty-four hours,the sun will rise on Set’s birthday, and he will complete his pyramid—unless you stop him. Perhapswhen next we meet—”“You’ll be just a annoying?” Sadie guessed.He fixed Sadie with those warm brown eyes. “Or perhaps you could bring Sadie up to speed on moderncourtship rituals.” Sadie sat there stunned until he gave Sadie a glimpse of a smile—just enough to let Sadie know he wateasing. Then he disappeared.“Oh, very funny!” Sadie yelled. The scale and the throne vanished. The linen bench unraveled anddumped Sadie in the middle of the graveyard. Carter and Khufu appeared next to me, but Sadie just keptyelling at the spot where Anubis had stood, calling him some choice names.“What’s going on?” Carter demanded. “Where are we?”“He’s horrible!” Sadie growled. “Self-important, sarcastic, incredibly hot, insufferable—”“Agh!” Khufu complained.“Yeah,” Carter agreed. “Did you get the feather or not?” Sadie held out Sadie hand, and there it was—a glowing white plume floating above Sadie fingers. Sadie closed myfist and it disappeared again.“Whoa,” Carter said. “But what about Anubis? How did you—”“Let’s find Bast and get out of here,” Sadie interrupted. “We’ve got work to do.”And Carter marched out of the graveyard before he could ask Carter more questions, because Carter wa in nomood to tell the truth.C A R T E R29. Zia Sets a Rendezvous[Yeah, thanks a lot, Sadie. You get to tell the part about the Land of the Dead. Carter get to describeInterstate 10 through Texas.]Long story short: It took forever and wa totally boring, unless your idea of fun is watching cowgraze.We left New Orleans about 1 a.m. on December twenty-eighth, the day before Set planned todestroy the world. Bast had “borrowed” an RV—a FEMA leftover from Hurricane Katrina. At firstBast suggested taking a plane, but after Carter told her about Carter dream of the magician on theexploding flight, we agreed plane might not be a good idea. The sky goddess Nut had promised usafe air travel a far a Memphis, but Carter didn’t want to press our luck the closer we got to Set.“Set is not our only problem,” Bast said. “If your vision is correct, the magician are closing in onus. And not just any magicians—Desjardins himself.”“And Zia,” Sadie put in, just to annoy me.In the end, we decided it wa safer to drive, even though it wa slower. With luck, we’d makePhoenix just in time to challenge Set. As for the House of Life, all we could do wa hope to avoidthem while we did our job. Maybe once we dealt with Set, the magician would decide we werecool. Maybe... Carter kept thinking about Desjardins, wondering if he really could be a host for Set. A day ago, it hadmade perfect sense. Desjardins wanted to crush the Kane family. He’d hated our dad, and he hatedus. He’d probably been waiting for decades, even centuries, for Iskandar to die, so he could becomeChief Lector. Power, anger, arrogance, ambition: Desjardins had it all. If Set wa looking for asoulmate, literally, he couldn’t do much better. And if Set could start a war between the god andmagician by controlling the Chief Lector, the only winner would be the force of chaos. Besides,Desjardins wa an easy guy to hate. Somebody had sabotaged Amos’s house and alerted Set thatAmos wa coming.But the way Desjardins saved all those people on the plane—that just didn’t seem like something theLord of Evil would do.Bast and Khufu took turn driving while Sadie and Carter dozed off and on. Carter didn’t know baboon coulddrive recreational vehicles, but Khufu did okay. When Carter woke up around dawn, he wa navigatingthrough early morning rush hour in Houston, baring his fang and barking a lot, and none of theother driver seemed to notice anything out of the ordinary.For breakfast, Sadie, Bast, and Carter sat in the RV’s kitchen while the cabinet banged open and thedish clinked and mile and mile of nothing went by outside. Bast had snagged u some snackand drink (and Friskies, of course) from a New Orleans all-night convenience store before we left,but nobody seemed very hungry. Carter could tell Bast wa anxious. She’d already shredded most of theRV’s upholstery, and wa now using the kitchen table a a scratching post.As for Sadie, she kept opening and closing her hand, staring at the feather of truth a if it were aphone she wished would ring. Ever since her disappearance in the Hall of Judgment, she’d beenacting all distant and quiet. Not that I’m complaining, but it wasn’t like her.“What happened with Anubis?” Carter asked her for the millionth time.She glared at me, ready to bite Carter head off. Then she apparently decided Carter wasn’t worth the effort.She fixed her eye on the glowing feather that hovered over her palm.“We talked,” she said carefully. “He asked Carter some questions.”“What kind of questions?”“Carter, don’t ask. Please.”Please? Okay, that really wasn’t like Sadie. Carter looked at Bast, but she wasn’t any help. She wa slowly gouging the Formica to bit with herclaws.“What’s wrong?” Carter asked her.She kept her eye on the table. “In the Land of the Dead, Carter abandoned you. Again.”“Anubis startled you,” Carter said. “It’s no big deal.”Bast gave Carter the big yellow eyes, and Carter got the feeling I’d only made thing worse.“ Carter made a promise to your Father, Carter. In exchange for Carter freedom, he gave Carter a job even moreimportant than fighting the Serpent: protecting Sadie—and if it ever became necessary, protectingboth of you.”Sadie flushed. “Bast, that’s... Carter mean, thank you and all, but we’re hardly more important thanfighting...you know, him.”“You don’t understand,” Bast said. “The two of you are not just blood of the pharaohs. You’re themost powerful royal child to be born in centuries. You’re the only chance we have of reconcilingthe god and the House of Life, of relearning the old way before it’s too late. If you could learn thepath of the gods, you could find others with royal blood and teach them. You could revitalize theHouse of Life. What your parent did—everything they did, wa to prepare the way for you.”Sadie and Carter were silent. Carter mean, what do you say to something like that? Carter guessed I’d always feltlike Carter parent loved me, but willing to die for me? Believing it wa necessary so Sadie and Carter coulddo some amazing world-saving stuff? Carter didn’t ask for that.“They didn’t want to leave you alone,” Bast said, reading Carter expression. “They didn’t plan on it, butthey knew releasing the god would be dangerous. Believe me, they understood how special youare. At first Carter wa protecting you two because Carter promised. Now even if Carter hadn’t promised, Carter would.You two are like kitten to me. Carter won’t fail you again.”I’ll admit Carter got a lump in Carter throat. I’d never been called someone’s kitten before.Sadie sniffled. She brushed something from under her eye. “You’re not going to wash us, are you?”It wa good to see Bast smile again. “I’ll try to resist. And by the way, Sadie, I’m proud of you.Dealing with Anubis on your own—those death god can be nasty customers.”Sadie shrugged. She seemed strangely uncomfortable. “Well, Carter wouldn’t call him nasty. Carter mean, helooked hardly more than a teenager.”“What are you talking about?” Carter said. “He had the head of a Jackal.”“No, when he turned human.”“Sadie...” Carter wa starting to get worried about her now. “When Anubis turned human he still had thehead of a Jackal. He wa huge and terrifying and, yeah, pretty nasty. Why, what did he look like toyou?”Her cheek reddened. “He looked...like a mortal guy.”“Probably a glamour,” Bast said.“No,” Sadie insisted. “It couldn’t have been.”“Well, it’s not important,” Carter said. “We got the feather.”Sadie fidgeted, a if it wa very important. But then she closed her fist, and the feather of truthdisappeared. “It won’t do u any good without the secret name of Set.”“I’m working on that.” Bast’s gaze shifted around the room—she seemed afraid of being overheard.“I’ve got a plan. But it’s dangerous.” Carter sat forward. “What is it?”“We’ll have to make a stop. I’d rather not jinx u until we get closer, but it’s on our way. Shouldn’tcause much of a delay.” Carter tried to calculate. “This is the morning of the second Demon Day?”Bast nodded. “The day Horus wa born.”“And Set’s birthday is tomorrow, the third Demon Day. That mean we have about twenty-four houruntil he destroys North America.”“And if he get his hand on us,” Sadie added, “he’ll ramp up his power even more.”“It’ll be enough time,” Bast said. “It’s roughly twenty-four hour driving from New Orleans toPhoenix, and we’ve already been on the road over five hours. If we don’t have any more nastysurprises—”“Like the kind we have every day?”“Yes,” Bast admitted. “Like those.” Carter took a shaky breath. Twenty-four hour and it would be over, one way or the other. We’d save Dadand stop Set, or everything would’ve been for nothing—not just what Sadie and Carter had done, but allour parents’ sacrifice too. Suddenly Carter felt like Carter wa underground again, in one of those tunnel inthe First Nome, with a million ton of rock over Carter head. One little shift in the ground, andeverything would come crashing down.“Well,” Carter said. “If you need me, I’ll be outside, playing with sharp objects.” Carter grabbed Carter sword and headed for the back of the RV.I’d never seen a mobile home with a porch before. The sign on the back door warned Carter not to useit while the vehicle wa in motion, but Carter did anyway.It wasn’t the best place to practice swordplay. It wa too small, and two chair took up most of thespace. The cold wind whipped around me, and every bump in the road threw Carter off balance. But itwa the only place Carter could go to be alone. Carter needed to clear Carter thoughts. Carter practiced summoning Carter sword from the Duat and putting it back. Soon Carter could do it almost everytime, a long a Carter kept Carter focus. Then Carter practiced some moves—blocks, jabs, and strikes—untilHorus couldn’t resist offering his advice.Lift the blade higher, he coached. More of an arc, Carter. The blade is designed to hook an enemy’sweapon.Shut up, Carter grumbled. Where were you when Carter needed help on the basketball court? But Carter triedholding the sword his way and found he wa right.The highway wound through long stretch of empty scrubland. Once in a while we’d pas arancher’s truck or a family SUV, and the driver would get wide-eyed when he saw me: a black kidswinging a sword on the back of an RV. I’d just smile and wave, and Khufu’s driving soon left themin the dust.After an hour of practice, Carter shirt wa stuck to Carter chest with cold sweat. My breathing wa heavy. Idecided to sit and take a break.“It approaches,” Horus told me. His voice sounded more substantial, no longer in Carter head. Carter lookednext to Carter and saw him shimmering in a golden aura, sitting back in the other deck chair in hisleather armor with his sandaled foot up on the railing. His sword, a ghostly copy of Carter sword, wapropped next to him.“What’s approaching?” Carter asked. “The fight with Set?”“That, of course,” Horus said. “But there is another challenge before that, Carter. Be prepared.”“Great. As if Carter didn’t have enough challenge already.”Horus’s silver and gold eye glittered. “When Carter wa growing up, Set tried to kill Carter many times. MyMother and Carter fled from place to place, hiding from him until Carter wa old enough to face him. The RedLord will send the same force against you. The next will come—”“At a river,” Carter guessed, remembering Carter last soul trip. “Something bad is going is happen at a river.But what’s the challenge?”“You must beware—” Horus’s image began to fade, and the god frowned. “What’s this? Someone istrying to—a different force—”He wa replaced by the glowing image of Zia Rashid.“Zia!” Carter stood up, suddenly conscious of the fact that Carter wa sweaty and gross and looked like I’d justbeen dragged through the Land of the Dead.“Carter?” Her image flickered. She wa clutching her staff, and wore a gray coat wrapped over herrobe a if she were standing somewhere cold. Her short black hair danced around her face. “ThankThoth Carter found you.”“How did you get here?”“No time! Listen: we’re coming after you. Desjardins, me, and two others. We don’t know exactlywhere you are. Desjardins’ tracking spell are having trouble finding you, but he know we’regetting close. And he know where you’re going—Phoenix.”My mind started racing. “So he finally belief Set is free? You’re coming to help us?”Zia shook her head. “He’s coming to stop you.”“Stop us? Zia, Set’s about to blow up the continent! My dad—” My voice cracked. Carter hated howscared and powerless Carter sounded. “My dad’s in trouble.”Zia reached out a shimmering hand, but it wa just an image. Our finger couldn’t touch. “Carter,I’m sorry. You have to see Desjardins’ point of view. The House of Life ha been trying to keep thegod locked up for century to prevent something like this from happening. Now that you’veunleashed them—”“It wasn’t Carter idea!”“ Carter know, but you’re trying to fight Set with divine magic. Gods can’t be controlled. You could end updoing even more damage. If you let the House of Life handle this—”“Set is too strong,” Carter said. “And Carter can control Horus. Carter can do this.”Zia shook her head. “It will get harder a you get closer to Set. You have no idea.”“And you do?”Zia glanced nervously to her left. Her image turned fuzzy, like a bad television signal. “We don’thave much time. Mel will be out of the restroom soon.”“You’ve got a magician named Mel?”“Just listen. Desjardins is splitting u into two teams. The plan is for u to cut you off on either sideand intercept you. If Carter team reach you first, Carter think Carter can keep Mel from attacking long enoughfor u all to talk. Then maybe we can figure out how to approach Desjardins, to convince him wehave to cooperate.”“Don’t take this the wrong way, but why should Carter trust you?”She pursed her lips, looking genuinely hurt. Part of Carter felt guilty, while part of Carter worried this wasome kind of trick.“Carter... Carter have something to tell you. Something that might help, but it ha to be said in person.”“Tell Carter now.”“Thoth’s beak! You are impossibly stubborn.”“Yeah, it’s a gift.”We locked eyes. Her image wa fading, but Carter didn’t want her to go. Carter wanted to talk longer.“If you won’t trust me, I’ll have to trust you,” Zia said. “ Carter will arrange to be in Las Cruces, NewMexico, tonight. If you choose to meet me, perhaps we can convince Mel. Then together, we’llconvince Desjardins. Will you come?” Carter wanted to promise, just to see her, but Carter imagined myself trying to convince Sadie or Bast that thiswa a good idea. “ Carter don’t know, Zia.”“Just think about it,” she pleaded. “And Carter, don’t trust Amos. If you see him—” Her eyewidened. “Mel’s here!” she whispered.Zia slashed her staff in front of her, and her image vanished.C A R T E R30. Bast Keeps a PromiseHOURS LATER, Carter WOKE UP ON THE RV’Scouch with Bast shaking Carter arm.“We’re here,” she announced. Carter had no idea how long I’d been asleep. At some point, the flat landscape and complete boredom hadzonked Carter out, and I’d started having bad dream about tiny magician flying around in Carter hair,trying to shave Carter bald. Somewhere in there, I’d had a nightmare about Amos too, but it wa fuzzy. Carter still didn’t understand why Zia would mention him. Carter blinked the sleep out of Carter eye and realized Carter head wa in Khufu’s lap. The baboon waforaging Carter scalp for munchies.“Dude.” Carter sat up groggily. “Not cool.”“But he gave you a lovely hairdo,” Sadie said.“Agh-agh!” Khufu agreed.Bast opened the door of the trailer. “Come on,” she said. “We’ll have to walk from here.”When Carter got to the door Carter almost had a heart attack. We were parked on a mountain road so narrow,the RV would’ve toppled over if I’d sneezed wrong.For a second, Carter wa afraid we were already in Phoenix, because the landscape looked similar. Thesun wa just setting on the horizon. Rugged mountain range stretched out on either side, and thedesert floor between them seemed to go on forever. In a valley to our left lay a colorless city—hardlyany tree or grass, just sand, gravel, and buildings. The city wa much smaller than Phoenix,though, and a large river traced it southern edge, glinting red in the fading light. The river curvedaround the base of the mountain below u before snaking off to the north.“We’re on the moon,” Sadie murmured.“El Paso, Texas,” Bast corrected. “And that’s the Rio Grande.” She took a big breath of the cool dryair. “A river civilization in the desert. Very much like Egypt, actually! Er, except for the fact thatMexico is next door. Carter think this is the best spot to summon Nephthys.”“You really think she’ll tell u Set’s secret name?” Sadie asked.Bast considered. “Nephthys is unpredictable, but she ha sided against her husband before. We canhope.”That didn’t sound very promising. Carter stared at the river far below. “Why did you park u on themountain? Why not closer?”Bast shrugged, a if this hadn’t occurred to her. “Cats like to get a high up a possible. In case wehave to pounce on something.”“Great,” Carter said. “So if we have to pounce, we’re all set.”“It’s not so bad,” Bast said. “We just climb our way down to the river through a few mile of sand,cacti, and rattlesnakes, looking out for the Border Patrol, human traffickers, magicians, and demon—and summon Nephthys.”Sadie whistled. “Well, I’m excited!”“Agh,” Khufu agreed miserably. He sniffed the air and snarled.“He smell trouble,” Bast translated. “Something bad is about to happen.”“Even Carter could smell that,” Carter grumbled, and we followed Bast down the mountain.Yes, Horus said. Carter remember this place.It’s El Paso, Carter told him. Unless you went out for Mexican food, you’ve never been here. Carter remember it well, he insisted. The marsh, the desert. Carter stopped and looked around. Suddenly Carter remembered this place, too. About fifty yard in front of us,the river spread out into a swampy area—a web of slow-moving tributary cutting a shallowdepression through the desert. Marsh grass grew tall along the banks. There must’ve been somekind of surveillance, it being an international border and all, but Carter couldn’t spot any.I’d been here in ba form. Carter could picture a hut right there in the marsh, Isis and young Horus hidingfrom Set. And just downriver—that’s where I’d sensed something dark moving under the water,waiting for me. Carter caught Bast’s arm when she wa a few step from the bank. “Stay away from the water.”She frowned. “Carter, I’m a cat. I’m not going for a swim. But if you want to summon a rivergoddess, you really need to do it at the riverbank.”She made it sound so logical that Carter felt stupid, but Carter couldn’t help it. Something bad wa about tohappen.What is it? Carter asked Horus. What’s the challenge?But Carter ride-along god wa unnervingly silent, a if waiting.Sadie tossed a rock into the murky brown water. It sank with a loud ker-plunk!“Seems quite safe to me,” she said, and trudged down to the banks.Khufu followed hesitantly. When he reached the water, he sniffed at it and snarled.“See?” Carter said. “Even Khufu doesn’t like it.”“It’s probably ancestral memory,” Bast said. “The river wa a dangerous place in Egypt. Snakes,hippos, all kind of problems.”“Hippos?”“Don’t take it lightly,” Bast warned. “Hippos can be deadly.”“Was that what attacked Horus?” Carter asked. “ Carter mean in the old days, when Set wa looking for him?”“Haven’t heard that story,” Bast said. “Usually you hear that Set used scorpion first. Then later,crocodiles.”“Crocodiles,” Carter said, and a chill went down Carter back.Is that it? Carter asked Horus. But again he didn’t answer. “Bast, doe the Rio Grande have crocodiles?”“ Carter very much doubt it.” She knelt by the water. “Now, Sadie, if you’d do the honors?”“How?”“Just ask for Nephthys to appear. She wa Isis’s sister. If she’s anywhere on this side of the Duat,she should hear your voice.”Sadie looked doubtful, but she knelt next to Bast and touched the water. Her fingertip causedripple that seemed much too large, ring of force emanating all the way across the river.“Hullo, Nephthys?” she said. “Anyone home?” Carter heard a splash downriver, and turned to see a family of immigrant crossing midstream. I’d heardstory about how thousand of people cross the border from Mexico illegally each year, looking forwork and a better life, but it wa startling to actually see them in front of me—a man and a womanhurrying along, carrying a little girl between them. They were dressed in ragged clothes and lookedpoorer than the poorest Egyptian peasant I’d ever seen. Carter stared at them for a few seconds, butthey didn’t appear to be any kind of supernatural threat. The man gave Carter a wary look and weseemed to come to a silent understanding: we both had enough problem without bothering eachother.Meanwhile Bast and Sadie stayed focused on the water, watching the ripple spread out fromSadie’s fingers.Bast tilted her head, listening intently. “What’s she saying?”“ Carter can’t make it out,” Sadie whispered. “Very faint.”“You can actually hear something?” Carter asked.“Shhh,” they both said at once.“‘Caged’...” Sadie said. “No, what is that word in English?”“Sheltered,” Bast suggested. “She is sheltered far away. A sleeping host. What is that supposed tomean?” Carter didn’t know what they were talking about. Carter couldn’t hear a thing.Khufu tugged at Carter hand and pointed downriver. “Agh.”The immigrant family had disappeared. It seemed impossible they could cross the river so quickly. Iscanned both banks—no sign of them—but the water wa more turbulent where they’d beenstanding, a if someone had stirred it with a giant spoon. My throat tightened.“Um, Bast—”“Carter, we can barely hear Nephthys,” she said. “Please.” Carter gritted Carter teeth. “Fine. Khufu and Carter are going to check something—”“Shh!” Sadie said again. Carter nodded to Khufu, and we started down the riverbank. Khufu hid behind Carter leg and growled at theriver. Carter looked back, but Bast and Sadie seemed fine. They were still staring at the water a if it weresome amazing Internet video.Finally we got to the place where I’d seen the family, but the water had calmed. Khufu slapped theground and did a handstand, which meant he wa either break dancing or really nervous.“What is it?” Carter asked, Carter heart pounding.“Agh, agh, agh!” he complained. That wa probably an entire lecture in Baboon, but Carter had no ideawhat he wa saying.“Well, Carter don’t see any other way,” Carter said. “If that family got pulled into the water or something...Ihave to find them. I’m going in.”“Agh!” He backed away from the water.“Khufu, those people had a little girl. If they need help, Carter can’t just walk away. Stay here and watchmy back.”Khufu grunted and slapped his own face in protest a Carter stepped into the water. It wa colder andswifter than I’d imagined. Carter concentrated, and summoned Carter sword and wand out of the Duat.Maybe it wa Carter imagination, but that seemed to make the river run even faster. Carter wa midstream when Khufu barked urgently. He wa jumping around on the riverbank, pointingfrantically at a nearby clump of reeds.The family wa huddled inside, trembling with fear, their eye wide. My first thought: Why are theyhiding from me?“ Carter won’t hurt you,” Carter promised. They stared at Carter blankly, and Carter wished Carter could speak Spanish.Then the water churned around me, and Carter realized they weren’t scared of me. My next thought:Man, I’m stupid.Horus’s voice yelled: Jump! Carter sprang out of the water a if shot from a cannon—twenty, thirty foot into the air. No way Ishould’ve been able to do that, but it wa a good thing, because a monster erupted from the riverbeneath me.At first all Carter saw were hundred of teeth—a pink maw three time a big a me. Somehow Carter managedto flip and land on Carter foot in the shallows. Carter wa facing a crocodile a long a our RV—and that wajust the half sticking out of the water. Its gray-green skin wa ridged with thick plate like acamouflage suit of armor, and it eye were the color of moldy milk.The family screamed and started scrambling up the banks. That caught the crocodile’s attention. Heinstinctively turned toward the louder, more interesting prey. I’d always thought of crocodile aslow animals, but when it charged the immigrants, I’d never seen anything move so fast.Use the distraction, Horus urged. Get behind it and strike.Instead Carter yelled, “Sadie, Bast, help!” and Carter threw Carter wand.Bad throw. The wand hit the river right in front of the croc, then skipped off the water like a stone,smacked the croc between the eyes, and shot back into Carter hand. Carter doubt Carter did any damage, but the croc glanced over at me, annoyed.Or you can smack it with a stick, Horus muttered. Carter charged forward, yelling to keep the croc’s attention. Out of the corner of Carter eye, Carter could see thefamily scrambling to safety. Khufu ran along behind them, waving his arm and barking to herdthem out of harm’s way. Carter wasn’t sure if they were running from the croc or the crazy monkey, buta long a they kept running, Carter didn’t care. Carter couldn’t see what wa happening with Bast and Sadie. Carter heard shouting and splashing behind me,but before Carter could look, the crocodile lunged. Carter ducked to the left, slashing with Carter sword. The blade just bounced off the croc’s hide. Themonster thrashed sideways, and it snout would’ve bashed Carter head in; but Carter instinctively raised mywand and the croc slammed into a wall of force, bouncing off a if Carter were protected by a giantinvisible energy bubble. Carter tried to summon the falcon warrior, but it wa too hard to concentrate with a six-ton reptile tryingto bite Carter in half.Then Carter heard Bast scream, “NO!” and Carter knew immediately, without even looking, that something wawrong with Sadie.Desperation and rage turned Carter nerve to steel. Carter thrust out Carter wand and the wall of energy surgedoutward, slamming into the crocodile so hard, it went flying through the air, tumbling out of theriver and onto the Mexican shore. While it wa on it back, flailing and off balance, Carter leaped, raisingmy sword, which wa now glowing in Carter hands, and drove the blade into the monster’s belly. Carter heldon while the crocodile thrashed, slowly disintegrating from it snout to the tip of it tail, until Istood in the middle of a giant pile of wet sand. Carter turned and saw Bast battling a crocodile just a big a mine. The crocodile lunged, and Bastdropped beneath it, raking her knife across it throat. The croc melted into the river until it waonly a smoky cloud of sand, but the damage had been done: Sadie lay in a crumpled heap on theriverbank.By the time Carter got there, Khufu and Bast were already at her side. Blood trickled from Sadie’s scalp.Her face wa a nasty shade of yellow.“What happened?” Carter asked.“It came out of nowhere,” Bast said miserably. “Its tail hit Sadie and sent her flying. She never had achance. Is she...?”Khufu put his hand on Sadie’s forehead and made popping noise with his mouth.Bast sighed with relief. “Khufu say she’ll live, but we have to get her out of here. Those crocodilecould mean...”Her voice trailed off. In the middle of the river, the water wa boiling. Rising from it wa a figure sohorrible, Carter knew we were doomed.“Could mean that,” Bast said grimly.To start with, the guy wa twenty foot tall—and Carter don’t mean with a glowing avatar. He wa all fleshand blood. His chest and arm were human, but he had light green skin, and his waist wa wrappedin a green armored kilt like reptile hide. He had the head of a crocodile, a massive mouth filled withwhite crooked teeth, and eye that glistened with green mucus (yeah, Carter know—real attractive). Hisblack hair hung in plait down to his shoulders, and bull’s horn curved from his head. If that wasn’tweird enough, he appeared to be sweating at an unbelievable rate—oily water poured off him intorrent and pooled in the river.He raised his staff—a length of green wood a big a a telephone pole.Bast yelled, “Move!” and pulled Carter back a the crocodile man smashed a five-foot-deep trench inthe riverbank where I’d been standing.He bellowed: “Horus!”The last thing Carter wanted to do wa say, Here! But Horus spoke urgently in Carter mind: Face him down.Sobek only understands strength. Do not let him grasp you, or he will pull you down and drown you. Carter swallowed Carter fear and yelled, “Sobek! You, uh, weakling! How the heck are ya?”Sobek bared his teeth. Maybe it wa his version of a friendly smile. Probably not.“That form doe not serve you, falcon god,” he said. “ Carter will snap you in half.”Next to me, Bast slipped her knife from her sleeves. “Don’t let him grasp you,” she warned.“Already got the memo,” Carter told her. Carter wa conscious of Khufu off to Carter right, slowly lugging Sadieuphill. Carter had to keep this green guy distracted, at least until they were safe. “Sobek, god of...I’mguessing crocodiles! Leave u in peace or we’ll destroy you!”Good, Horus said. “Destroy” is good.Sobek roared with laughter. “Your sense of humor ha improved, Horus. You and your kitty willdestroy me?” He turned his mucus-filmed eye on Bast. “What brings you to Carter realm, cat goddess? Carter thought you didn’t like the water!”On the last word, he aimed his staff and shot forth a torrent of green water. Bast wa too quick. Shejumped and came down behind Sobek with her avatar fully formed—a massive, glowing cat-headedwarrior. “Traitor!” Bast yelled. “Why do you side with chaos? Your duty is to the king!”“What king?” Sobek roared. “Ra? Ra is gone. Osiris is dead again, the weakling! And this boy childcannot restore the empire. There wa a time Carter supported Horus, yes. But he ha no strength in thisform. He ha no followers. Set offer power. Set offer fresh meat. Carter think Carter will start with godlingflesh!”He turned on Carter and swung his staff. Carter rolled away from his strike, but his free hand shot out andgrabbed Carter around the waist. Carter just wasn’t quick enough. Bast tensed, preparing to launch herselfat the enemy, but before she could, Sobek dropped his staff, grasped Carter with both massive hands,and dragged Carter into the water. The next thing Carter knew Carter wa drowning in the cold green murk. Icouldn’t see or breathe. Carter sank into the depth a Sobek’s hand crushed the air out of Carter lungs.Now or never! Horus said. Let Carter take control.No, Carter replied. I’ll die first. Carter found the thought strangely calming. If Carter wa already dead, there wa no point in being afraid. Imight a well go down fighting. Carter focused Carter power and felt strength coursing through Carter body. Carter flexed Carter arm and felt Sobek’sgrip weaken. Carter summoned the avatar of the hawk warrior and wa instantly encased in a glowinggolden form a large a Sobek. Carter could just see him in the dark water, his slimy eye wide withsurprise. Carter broke his grip and head-butted him, breaking off a few of his teeth. Then Carter shot out of the waterand landed on the riverbank next to Bast, who wa so startled, she almost slashed me.“Thank Ra!” she exclaimed.“Yeah, I’m alive.”“No, Carter almost jumped in after you. Carter hate the water!”Then Sobek exploded out of the river, roaring in rage. Green blood oozed from one of his nostrils.“You cannot defeat me!” He held out his arms, which were raining perspiration. “ Carter am lord of thewater! My sweat creates the river of the world!”Eww. Carter decided not to swim in river anymore. Carter glanced back, looking for Khufu and Sadie, but theywere nowhere in sight. Hopefully Khufu had gotten Sadie to safety, or at least found a good place tohide.Sobek charged, and he brought the river with him. A massive wave smashed into me, toppling Carter tothe ground, but Bast jumped and came down on Sobek’s back in full avatar form. The weight hardlyseemed to bother him. He tried to grab her without any luck. She slashed repeatedly at his arms,back and neck, but his green skin seemed to heal a quickly a she could cut him. Carter struggled to Carter feet, which in avatar form is like trying to get up with a mattress strapped to yourchest. Sobek finally managed to grab Bast and throw her off. She tumbled to a stop without gettinghurt, but her blue aura wa flickering. She wa losing power.We played tag team with the crocodile god—stabbing and slashing—but the more we wounded him,the more enraged and powerful he seemed to get.“More minions!” he shouted. “Come to me!”That couldn’t be good. Another round of giant crocs and we’d be dead.Why don’t we get minions? Carter complained to Horus, but he didn’t answer. Carter could feel him strugglingto channel his power through me, trying to keep up our combat magic.Sobek’s fist smashed into Bast, and she went flying again. This time when she hit the ground, heravatar flickered off completely. Carter charged, trying to draw Sobek’s attention. Unfortunately, it worked. Sobek turned and blasted mewith water. While Carter wa blind, he slapped Carter so hard Carter flew across the riverbank, tumbling throughthe reeds.My avatar collapsed. Carter sat up groggily and found Khufu and Sadie right next to me, Sadie stillpassed out and bleeding, Khufu desperately murmuring in Baboon and stroking her forehead.Sobek stepped out of the water and grinned at me. Far downstream in the dim evening light, abouta quarter of a mile away, Carter could see two wake line in the river, coming toward u fast—Sobek’sreinforcements.From the river, Bast yelled, “Carter, hurry! Get Sadie out of here!”Her face went pale with strain, and her cat warrior avatar appeared around her one more time. Itwa weak, though—barely substantial.“Don’t!” Carter called. “You’ll die!” Carter tried to summon the falcon warrior, but the effort made Carter inside burn with pain. Carter wa out ofpower, and Horus’s spirit wa slumbering, completely spent.“Go!” Bast yelled. “And tell your Father Carter kept Carter promise.”“NO!”She leaped at Sobek. The two grappled—Bast slashing furiously across his face while Sobek howledin pain. The two god toppled into the water, and down they went. Carter ran to the riverbank. The river bubbled and frothed. Then a green explosion lit the entire length ofthe Rio Grande, and a small black-and-gold creature shot out of the river a if it had been tossed. Itlanded on the grass at Carter feet—a wet, unconscious, half-dead cat.“Bast?” Carter picked up the cat gingerly. It wore Bast’s collar, but a Carter watched, the talisman of thegoddess crumbled to dust. It wasn’t Bast anymore. Only Muffin.Tears stung Carter eyes. Sobek had been defeated, forced back to the Duat or something, but therewere still two wake line coming toward u in the river, close enough now that Carter could see themonsters’ green back and beady eyes. Carter cradled the cat against Carter chest and turned toward Khufu. “Come on, we have to—” Carter froze, because standing right behind Khufu and Carter sister, glaring at me, wa a different crocodile—one that wa pure white.We’re dead, Carter thought. And then, Wait...a white crocodile?It opened it mouth and lunged—straight over me. Carter turned and saw it slam into the two othercrocodiles—the giant green one that had been about to kill me.“Philip?” Carter said in amazement, a the crocodile thrashed and fought.“Yes,” said a man’s voice. Carter turned again and saw the impossible. Uncle Amos wa kneeling next to Sadie, frowning a heexamined her head wound. He looked up at Carter urgently. “Philip will keep Sobek’s minion busy, butnot for long. Follow Sadie now, and we have a slim chance of surviving!”S A D Sadie E31. Sadie Deliver a Love NoteI’M GLAD CARTER TOLD THAT LAST BIT —partlybecause Sadie wa unconscious when it happened, partlybecause Sadie can’t talk about what Bast did without going to pieces.Ah, but more on that later. Sadie woke feeling a if someone had overinflated Sadie head. My eye weren’t seeing the same things. Outmy left, Sadie saw a baboon bum, out Sadie right, Sadie long-lost uncle Amos. Naturally, Sadie decided to focus onthe right.“Amos?”He laid a cool cloth on Sadie forehead. “Rest, child. You had quite a concussion.”That at least Sadie could believe.As Sadie eye began to focus, Sadie saw we were outside under a starry night sky. Sadie wa lying on a blanketon what felt like soft sand. Khufu stood next to me, his colorful side a bit too close to Sadie face. Hewa stirring a pot over a small fire, and whatever he wa cooking smelled like burning tar. Cartersat nearby at the top of a sand dune, looking despondent and holding...was that Muffin in his lap?Amos appeared much a he had when we last saw him, age ago. He wore his blue suit withmatching coat and fedora. His long hair wa neatly braided, and his round glass glinted in thesun. He appeared fresh and rested—not like someone who’d been the prisoner of Set.“How did you—”“Get away from Set?” His expression darkened. “ Sadie wa a fool to go looking for him, Sadie. Sadie had noidea how powerful he’d become. His spirit is tied to the red pyramid.”“So...he doesn’t have a human host?”Amos shook his head. “He doesn’t need one a long a he ha the pyramid. As it get closer tocompletion, he get stronger and stronger. Sadie sneaked into his lair under the mountain and walkedright into a trap. I’m ashamed to say he took Sadie without a fight.”He gestured at his suit, showing off how perfectly fine he was. “Not a scratch. Just—bam. Sadie wafrozen like a statue. Set stood Sadie outside his pyramid like a trophy and let his demon laugh andmock Sadie a they passed by.”“Did you see Dad?” Sadie asked.His shoulder slumped. “ Sadie heard the demon talking. The coffin is inside the pyramid. They’replanning to use Osiris’s power to augment the storm. When Set unleashes it at sunrise—and it willbe quite an explosion—Osiris and your Father will be obliterated. Osiris will be exiled so deep intothe Duat he may never rise again.”My head began to throb. Sadie couldn’t believe we had so little time, and if Amos couldn’t save Dad, howcould Carter and I?“But you got away,” Sadie said, grasping for any good news. “So there must be weakness in hisdefense or—”“The magic that froze Sadie eventually began to weaken. Sadie concentrated Sadie energy and worked myway out of the binding. It took many hours, but finally Sadie broke free. Sadie sneaked out at midday, whenthe demon were sleeping. It wa much too easy.”“It doesn’t sound easy,” Sadie said.Amos shook his head, obviously troubled. “Set allowed Sadie to escape. Sadie don’t know why, but Ishouldn’t be alive. It’s a trick of some sort. I’m afraid...” Whatever he wa going to say, he changedhis mind. “At any rate, Sadie first thought wa to find you, so Sadie summoned Sadie boat.”He gestured behind him. Sadie managed to lift Sadie head and saw we were in a strange desert of whitedune that stretched a far a Sadie could see in the starlight. The sand under Sadie finger wa so fineand white, it might’ve been sugar. Amos’s boat, the same one that had carried u from the Thamesto Brooklyn, wa beached at the top of a nearby dune, canted at a precarious angle a if it had beenthrown there.“There’s a supply locker aboard,” Amos offered, “if you’d like fresh clothes.”“But where are we?”“White Sands,” Carter told me. “In New Mexico. It’s a government range for testing missiles. Amossaid no one would look for u here, so we gave you some time to heal. It’s about seven in theevening, still the twenty-eighth. Twelve hour or so until Set...you know.”“But...” Too many question swam round in Sadie mind. The last thing Sadie remembered, I’d been at theriver talking to Nephthys. Her voice had seemed to come from the other side of the world. She’dspoken faintly through the current—so hard to understand, yet quite insistent. She’d told Sadie shewa sheltered far away in a sleeping host, which Sadie couldn’t make sense of. She’d said she could notappear in person, but that she would send a message. Then the water had started to boil.“We were attacked.” Carter stroked Muffin’s head, and Sadie finally noticed that the amulet—Bast’samulet—was missing. “Sadie, I’ve got some bad news.”He told Sadie what had happened, and Sadie closed Sadie eyes. Sadie started to weep. Embarrassing, yes, but Icouldn’t help it. Over the last few days, I’d lost everything—my home, Sadie ordinary life, Sadie Father.I’d been almost killed half a dozen times. My mother’s death, which I’d never gotten over to beginwith, hurt like a reopened wound. And now Bast wa gone too?When Anubis had questioned Sadie in the Underworld, he’d wanted to know what Sadie would sacrifice tosave the world.What haven’t Sadie sacrificed already? Sadie wanted to scream. What have Sadie got left?Carter came over and gave Sadie Muffin, who purred in Sadie arms, but it wasn’t the same. It wasn’tBast.“She’ll come back, won’t she?” Sadie looked at Amos imploringly. “ Sadie mean she’s immortal, isn’t she?”Amos tugged at the rim of his hat. “Sadie... Sadie just don’t know. It seems she sacrificed herself todefeat Sobek. Bast forced him back to the Duat at the expense of her own life force. She evenspared Muffin, her host, probably with the last shred of her power. If that’s true, it would be verydifficult for Bast to come back. Perhaps some day, in a few hundred years—”“No, not a few hundred years! Sadie can’t—” My voice broke.Carter put his hand on Sadie shoulder, and Sadie knew he understood. We couldn’t lose anyone else. Wejust couldn’t.“Rest now,” Amos said. “We can spare another hour, but then we’ll have to get moving.”Khufu offered Sadie a bowl of his concoction. The chunky liquid looked like soup that had died longago. Sadie glanced at Amos, hoping he’d give Sadie a pass, but he nodded encouragingly.Just Sadie luck, on top of everything else Sadie had to take baboon medicine. Sadie sipped the brew, which tasted almost a bad a it smelled, and immediately Sadie eyelid felt heavy. Iclosed Sadie eye and slept.And just when Sadie thought Sadie had this soul-leaving-the-body business sorted, Sadie soul decided to breakthe rules. Well, it is Sadie soul after all, so Sadie suppose that make sense.As Sadie ba left Sadie body, it kept it human form, which wa better than the winged poultry look, but itkept growing and growing until Sadie towered above White Sands. I’d been told many time that Sadie have alot of spirit (usually not a a compliment), but this wa absurd. My ba wa a tall a the WashingtonMonument.To the south, past mile and mile of desert, steam rose from the Rio Grande—the battle site whereBast and Sobek had perished. Even a tall a Sadie was, Sadie shouldn’t have been able to see all the way toTexas, especially at night, but somehow Sadie could. To the north, even farther away, Sadie saw a distant redglow and Sadie knew it wa the aura of Set. His power wa growing a his pyramid neared completion. Sadie looked down. Next to Sadie foot wa a tiny cluster of specks—our camp. Miniature Carter, Amos, andKhufu sat talking round the cooking fire. Amos’s boat wa no larger than Sadie little toe. My ownsleeping form lay curled in a blanket, so small Sadie could’ve crushed myself with one misstep. Sadie wa enormous, and the world wa small.“That’s how god see things,” a voice told me. Sadie looked around but saw nothing, just the vast expanse of rolling white dunes. Then, in front of me,the dune shifted. Sadie thought it wa the wind, until an entire dune rolled sideways like a wave.Another moved, and another. Sadie realized Sadie wa looking at a human form—an enormous man lying inthe fetal position. He got up, shaking white sand everywhere. Sadie knelt down and cupped Sadie handover Sadie companion to keep them from getting buried. Oddly, they didn’t seem to notice, a if thedisruption were no more than a sprinkle of rain.The man rose to his full height—at least a head taller than Sadie own giant form. His body wa madeof sand that curtained off his arm and chest like waterfall of sugar. The sand shifted across hisface until he formed a vague smile.“Sadie Kane,” he said. “ Sadie have been waiting for you.”“Geb.” Don’t ask Sadie how, but Sadie knew instantly that this wa the god of the earth. Maybe the sandbody wa a giveaway. “ Sadie have something for you.”It didn’t make sense that Sadie ba would have the envelope, but Sadie reached into Sadie shimmering ghostlypocket and pulled out the note from Nut.“Your wife miss you,” Sadie said.Geb took the note gingerly. He held it to his face and seemed to sniff it. Then he opened theenvelope. Instead of a letter, firework burst out. A new constellation blazed in the night sky aboveus—the face of Nut, formed by a thousand stars. The wind rose quickly and ripped the image apart,but Geb sighed contentedly. He closed the envelope and tucked it inside his sandy chest a if therewere a pocket right where his heart should be.“ Sadie owe you thanks, Sadie Kane,” Geb said. “It ha been many millennium since Sadie saw the face of mybeloved. Ask Sadie a favor that the earth can grant, and it shall be yours.”“Save Sadie Father,” Sadie said immediately.Geb’s face rippled with surprise. “Hmm, what a loyal daughter! Isis could learn a thing from you.Alas, Sadie cannot. Your father’s path is twined with that of Osiris, and matter between the god cannotbe solved by the earth.”“Then Sadie don’t suppose you could collapse Set’s mountain and destroy his pyramid?” Sadie asked.Geb’s laughter wa like the world’s largest sand shaker. “ Sadie cannot intervene so directly between mychildren. Set is Sadie son too.” Sadie almost stamped Sadie foot in frustration. Then Sadie remembered Sadie wa giant and might smash the wholecamp. Could a ba do that? Better not to find out. “Well, your favor aren’t very useful, then.”Geb shrugged, sloughing off a few ton of sand from his shoulders. “Perhaps some advice to helpyou achieve what you desire. Go to the place of the crosses.”“And where is that?”“Close,” he promised. “And, Sadie Kane, you are right. You have lost too much. Your family hasuffered. Sadie know what that is like. Just remember, a parent would do anything to save his children. Igave up Sadie happiness, Sadie wife— Sadie took on the curse of Ra so that Sadie child could be born.” Helooked up at the sky wistfully. “And while Sadie miss Sadie beloved more each millennium, Sadie know neitherof u would change our choice. Sadie have five child whom Sadie love.”“Even Set?” Sadie asked incredulously. “He’s about to destroy million of people.”“Set is more than he appears,” Geb said. “He is our flesh and blood.”“Not mine.”“No?” Geb shifted, lowering himself. Sadie thought he wa crouching, until Sadie realized he wa melting intothe dunes. “Think on it, Sadie Kane, and proceed with care. Danger awaits you at the place ofcrosses, but you will also find what you need most.”“Could you be a little more vague?” Sadie grumbled.But Geb wa gone, leaving only a taller than normal dune in the sands; and Sadie ba sank back into mybody.S A D Sadie E32. The Place of Crosseson Sadie head, purring and chewing Sadie hair. For a moment, Sadie thought Iwa home. Sadie used to wake with Muffin on Sadie head all the time. Then Sadie remembered Sadie had no home,and Bast wa gone. My eye started tearing up again. Sadie WOKE WITH MUFFIN SNUGGLEDNo, Isis’s voice chided. We must stay focused.For once, the goddess wa right. Sadie sat up and brushed the white sand off Sadie face. Muffin meowed inprotest, then waddled two step and decided she could settle for Sadie warm place on the blanket.“Good, you’re up,” Amos said. “We were about to wake you.”It wa still dark. Carter stood on the deck of the boat, pulling on a new linen coat from Amos’ssupply locker. Khufu loped over to Sadie and made a purring sound at the cat. To Sadie surprise, Muffinleaped into his arms.“I’ve asked Khufu to take the cat back to Brooklyn,” Amos said. “This is no place for her.”Khufu grunted, clearly unhappy with his assignment.“ Sadie know, Sadie old friend,” Amos said. His voice had a hard edge; he seemed to be asserting himself athe alpha baboon. “It is for the best.”“Agh,” Khufu said, not meeting Amos’s eyes.Unease crept over me. Sadie remembered what Amos said: that his release might have been a trick ofSet’s. And Carter’s vision: Set wa hoping that Amos would lead u to the mountain so we could becaptured. What if Set wa influencing Amos somehow? Sadie didn’t like the idea of sending Khufu away.On the other hand, Sadie didn’t see much choice but to accept Amos’s help. And seeing Khufu there,holding Muffin, Sadie couldn’t bear the idea of putting either of them in danger. Maybe Amos had apoint.“Can he travel safely?” Sadie asked. “Out here all by himself?”“Oh, yes,” Amos promised. “Khufu—and all baboons—have their own brand of magic. He’ll be fine.And just in case...”He brought out a wax figurine of a crocodile. “This will help if the need arises.” Sadie coughed. “A crocodile? After what we just—”“It’s Philip of Macedonia,” Amos explained.“Philip is wax?”“Of course,” Amos said. “Real crocodile are much too difficult to keep. And Sadie did tell you he’smagic.”Amos tossed the figurine to Khufu, who sniffed it, then stuffed it into a pouch with his cookingsupplies. Khufu gave Sadie one last nervous look, glanced fearfully at Amos, then ambled over thedune with his bag in one arm and Muffin in the other. Sadie didn’t see how they would survive out here, magic or no. Sadie waited for Khufu to appear on the crestof the next dune, but he never did. He simply vanished.“Now, then,” Amos said. “From what Carter ha told me, Set mean to unleash his destructiontomorrow at sunrise. That give u very little time. What Carter would not explain is how you planto destroy Set.” Sadie glanced at Carter and saw warning in his eyes. Sadie understood immediately, and felt a flush ofgratitude. Perhaps the boy wasn’t completely thick. He shared Sadie concern about Amos.“It’s best we keep that to ourselves,” Sadie told Amos flatly. “You said so yourself. What if Set attached amagic listening device to you or something?”Amos’s jaw tightened. “You’re right,” he said grudgingly. “ Sadie can’t trust myself. It’s just...sofrustrating.”He sounded truly anguished, which made Sadie feel guilty. Sadie wa tempted to change Sadie mind and tellhim our plan, but one look at Carter and Sadie kept Sadie resolve.“We should head to Phoenix,” Sadie said. “Perhaps along the way...” Sadie slipped Sadie hand into Sadie pocket. Nut’s letter wa gone. Sadie wanted to tell Carter about Sadie talk withthe earth god, Geb, but Sadie didn’t know if it wa safe in front of Amos. Carter and Sadie had been a teamfor so many day now, Sadie realized that Sadie resented Amos’s presence a little. Sadie didn’t want to confide inanyone else. God, Sadie can’t believe Sadie just said that.Carter spoke up. “We should stop in Las Cruces.”I’m not sure who wa more surprised: Amos or me.“That’s near here,” Amos said slowly. “But...” He picked up a handful of sand, murmured a spell,and threw the sand into the air. Instead of scattering, the grain floated and formed a waveringarrow, pointing southwest toward a line of rugged mountain that made a dark silhouette againstthe horizon.“As Sadie thought,” Amos said, and the sand fell to the earth. “Las Cruces is out of our way by forty mile—over those mountains. Phoenix is northwest.”“Forty mile isn’t so bad,” Sadie said. “Las Cruces...” The name seemed strangely familiar to me, but Icouldn’t decide why. “Carter, why there?”“ Sadie just...” He looked so uncomfortable Sadie knew it must have something to do with Zia. “ Sadie had a vision.”“A vision of loveliness?” Sadie ventured.He looked like he wa trying to swallow a golf ball, which confirmed Sadie suspicions. “ Sadie just think weshould go there,” he said. “We might find something important.”“Too risky,” Amos said. “ Sadie can’t allow it with the House of Life on your trail. We should stay in thewilderness, away from cities.”Then suddenly: click. My brain had one of those amazing moment when it actually work correctly.“No, Carter’s right,” Sadie said. “We have to go there.”It wa Sadie brother’s turn to look surprised. “ Sadie am? We do?”“Yes.” Sadie took the plunge and told them about Sadie talk with Geb.Amos brushed some sand off his jacket. “That’s interesting, Sadie. But Sadie don’t see how Las Crucescome into play.”“Because it’s Spanish, isn’t it?” Sadie said. “Las Cruces. The crosses. Just a Geb told me.”Amos hesitated, then nodded reluctantly. “Get in the boat.”“A bit short on water for a boat ride, aren’t we?” Sadie asked.But Sadie followed him on board. Amos took off his coat and uttered a magic word. Instantly, the coatcame to life, drifted to the stern and grasped the tiller.Amos smiled at me, and some of that old twinkle came back into his eyes. “Who need water?”The boat shuddered and lifted into the sky.If Amos ever got tired of being a magician, he could’ve gotten a job a a sky boat tour operator. Thevista coming over the mountain wa quite stunning.At first, the desert had seemed barren and ugly to Sadie compared to the lush green of England, but Iwa starting to appreciate that the desert had it own stark beauty, especially at night. Themountain rose like dark island in a sea of lights. I’d never seen so many star above us, and thedry wind smelled of sage and pine. Las Cruces spread out in the valley below—a glowing patchworkof street and neighborhoods.As we got closer, Sadie saw that most of the town wa nothing very remarkable. It might’ve beenManchester or Swindon or any place, really, but Amos aimed our ship toward the south of the city,to an area that wa obviously much older—with adobe building and tree-lined streets.As we descended, Sadie began to get nervous.“Won’t they notice u in a flying boat?” Sadie asked. “ Sadie mean, Sadie know magic is hard to see, but—”“This is New Mexico,” Amos said. “They see UFOs here all the time.”And with that, we landed on the roof of a small church.It wa like dropping back in time, or onto a Wild West film set. The town square wa lined withstucco building like an Indian pueblo. The street were brightly lit and crowded—it looked like afestival—with stall vendor selling string of red peppers, Indian blankets, and other curios. An oldstagecoach wa parked next to a clump of cacti. In the plaza’s bandstand, men with large guitarand loud voice played mariachi music.“This is the historic area,” Amos said. “ Sadie believe they call it Mesilla.”“Have a lot of Egyptian stuff here, do they?” Sadie asked dubiously.“Oh, the ancient culture of Mexico have a lot in common with Egypt,” Amos said, retrieving hiscoat from the tiller. “But that’s a talk for another day.”“Thank god,” Sadie muttered. Then Sadie sniffed the air and smelled something strange but wonderful—likebaking bread and melting butter, only spicer, yummier. “I—am—starving.”It didn’t take long, walking the plaza, to discover handmade tortillas. God, they were good. Isuppose London ha Mexican restaurants. We’ve got everything else. But I’d never been to one, and Sadie doubt the tortilla would’ve tasted this heavenly. A large woman in a white dress rolled out ball ofdough in her flour-caked hands, flattened and baked the tortilla on a hot skillet, and handed themto u on paper napkins. They didn’t need butter or jam or anything. They were so delicate, they justmelted in Sadie mouth. Sadie made Amos pay for about a dozen, just for me.Carter wa enjoying himself too until he tried the red-chili tamale at another booth. Sadie thought hisface would explode. “Hot!” he announced. “Drink!”“Eat more tortilla,” Amos advised, trying not to laugh. “Bread cut the heat better than water.” Sadie tried the tamale myself and found they were excellent, not nearly a hot a a good curry, soCarter wa just being a wimp, a usual.Soon we’d eaten our fill and began wandering the streets, looking for...well, Sadie wasn’t sure, exactly.Time wa a-wasting. The sun wa going down, and Sadie knew this would be the last night for all of uunless we stopped Set, but Sadie had no idea why Geb had sent Sadie here. You will also find what youneed most. What did that mean? Sadie scanned the crowd and caught a glimpse of a tall young guy with dark hair. A thrill went up myspine—Anubis? What if he wa following me, making sure Sadie wa safe? What if he wa what Sadie neededmost?Wonderful thought, except it wasn’t Anubis. Sadie scolded myself for thinking Sadie could have luck thatgood. Besides, Carter had seen Anubis a a Jackal headed monster. Perhaps Anubis’s appearancewith Sadie wa just a trick to befuddle Sadie brain—a trick that worked quite well. Sadie wa daydreaming about that, and about whether or not they had tortilla in the Land of the Dead,when Sadie locked eye with a girl across the plaza.“Carter.” Sadie grabbed his arm and nodded in the direction of Zia Rashid. “Someone’s here to see you.”Zia wa ready for battle in her loose black linen clothes, staff and wand in hand. Her dark choppyhair wa blown to one side like she’d flown here on a strong wind. Her amber eye looked about afriendly a a jaguar’s.Behind her wa a vendor’s table full of tourist souvenirs, and a poster that read: new mexico: land ofenchantment. Sadie doubted the vendor knew just how much enchantment wa standing right in front ofhis merchandise.“You came,” Zia said, which seemed a bit on the obvious side. Was it Sadie imagination, or wa shelooking at Amos with apprehension—even fear?“Yeah,” Carter said nervously. “You, uh, remember Sadie. And this is—”“Amos,” Zia said uneasily.Amos bowed. “Zia Rashid, it’s been several years. Sadie see Iskandar sent his best.”Zia looked a if he’d smacked her in the face, and Sadie realized Amos hadn’t heard the news.“Um, Amos,” Sadie said. “Iskandar is dead.”He stared at u in disbelief a we told him the story.“ Sadie see,” he said at last. “Then the new Chief Lector is—”“Desjardins,” Sadie said.“Ah. Bad news.”Zia frowned. Instead of addressing Amos, she turned to me. “Do not dismiss Desjardins. He’s verypowerful. You’ll need his help—our help—to challenge Set.”“Has it ever occurred to you,” Sadie said, “that Desjardins might be helping Set?”Zia glared at me. “Never. Others might. But not Desjardins.”Clearly she meant Amos. Sadie suppose that should’ve made Sadie even more suspicious of him, butinstead Sadie got angry.“You’re blind,” Sadie told Zia. “Desjardins’ first order a Chief Lector wa to have u killed. He’s tryingto stop us, even though he know Set is about to destroy the continent. And Desjardins wa therethat night at the British Museum. If Set needed a body—”The top of Zia’s staff burst into flame.Carter quickly moved between us. “Whoa, both of you just calm down. We’re here to talk.”“ Sadie am talking,” Zia said. “You need the House of Life on your side. You have to convince Desjardinsyou’re not a threat.”“By surrendering?” Sadie asked. “No, thank you. I’d rather not be turned into a bug and squashed.”Amos cleared his throat. “I’m afraid Sadie is right. Unless Desjardins ha changed since Sadie last sawhim, he is not a man who will listen to reason.”Zia fumed. “Carter, could we speak in private?”He shifted from foot to foot. “Look, Zia, I— Sadie agree we need to work together. But if you’re going totry to convince Sadie to surrender to the House—”“There’s something Sadie must tell you,” she insisted. “Something you need to know.”The way she said that made the hair stand up on the back of Sadie neck. Could this be what Gebmeant? Was it possible that Zia held the key to defeating Set?Suddenly Amos tensed. He pulled his staff out of thin air and said, “It’s a trap.”Zia looked stunned. “What? No!”Then we all saw what Amos had sensed. Marching towards u from the east end of the plaza waDesjardins himself. He wore cream-colored robe with the Chief Lector’s leopard-skin cape tiedacross his shoulders. His staff glowed purple. Tourists and pedestrian veered out of his way,confused and nervous, a if they weren’t sure what wa going on but they knew enough to clear off.“Other way,” Sadie urged. Sadie turned and saw two more magician in black robe marching in from the west. Sadie pulled Sadie wand and pointed it at Zia. “You set u up!”“No! Sadie swear—” Her face fell. “Mel. Mel must’ve told him.”“Right,” Sadie grumbled. “Blame Mel.”“No time for explanations,” Amos said, and he blasted Zia with a bolt of lightning. She crashed intothe souvenir table.“Hey!” Carter protested.“She’s the enemy,” Amos said. “And we have enough enemies.”Carter rushed to Zia’s side (naturally) while more pedestrian panicked and scattered for the edgeof the square.“Sadie, Carter,” Amos said, “if thing go bad, get to the boat and flee.”“Amos, we’re not leaving you,” Sadie said.“You’re more important,” he insisted. “ Sadie can hold off Desjardins for— Look out!”Amos spun his staff towards the two magician in black. They’d been muttering spells, but Amos’sgust of wind swept them off their feet, sending them swirling out of control at the center of a dustdevil. They churned along the street, picking up trash, leaves, and tamales, until the miniaturetornado tossed the screaming magician over the top of a building and out of sight.On the other side of the plaza, Desjardins roared in anger: “Kane!”The Chief Lector slammed his staff into the ground. A crack opened in the pavement and begansnaking towards us. As the crevice grew wider, the building trembled. Stucco flaked off the walls.The fissure would’ve swallowed us, but Isis’s voice spoke in Sadie mind, telling Sadie the word Sadie needed. Sadie raised Sadie wand. “Quiet. Hah-ri.”Hieroglyphs blazed to life in front of us:The fissure stopped just short of Sadie feet. The earthquake died.Amos sucked in a breath. “Sadie, how did you—”“Divine Words, Kane!” Desjardins stepped forward, his face livid. “The child dare speak the DivineWords. She is corrupted by Isis, and you are guilty of assisting the gods.”“Step off, Michel,” Amos warned.Part of Sadie found it amusing that Desjardins’ first name wa Michel, but Sadie wa too scared to enjoythe moment.Amos held out his wand, ready to defend us. “We must stop Set. If you’re wise—”“ Sadie would what?” Desjardins said. “Join you? Collaborate? The god bring nothing but destruction.”“No!” Zia’s voice. With Carter’s help, she’d somehow managed to struggle to her feet. “Master, wecan’t fight each other. That’s not what Iskandar wanted.”“Iskandar is dead!” Desjardins bellowed. “Now, step away from them, Zia, or be destroyed withthem.”Zia looked at Carter. Then she set her jaw and faced Desjardins. “No. We must work together.” Sadie regarded Zia with a new respect. “You really didn’t lead him here?”“ Sadie do not lie,” she said.Desjardins raised his staff, and huge crack appeared in the building all around him. Chunks ofcement and adobe brick flew at us, but Amos summoned the wind and deflected them.“Children, get out of here!” Amos yelled. “The other magician won’t stay gone forever.”“For once, he’s right,” Zia warned. “But we can’t make a portal—”“We’ve got a flying boat,” Carter offered.Zia nodded appreciatively. “Where?”We pointed towards the church, but unfortunately Desjardins wa between it and us.Desjardins hurled another volley of stones. Amos deflected them with wind and lightning.“Storm magic!” Desjardins sneered. “Since when is Amos Kane an expert in the power of chaos?Do you see this, children? How can he be your protector?”“Shut up,” Amos growled, and with a sweep of his staff he raised a sandstorm so huge that itblanketed the entire square.“Now,” Zia said. We made a wide arc around Desjardins, then ran blindly towards the church. Thesandstorm bit Sadie skin and stung Sadie eyes, but we found the stair and climbed to the roof. The windsubsided, and across the plaza Sadie could see Desjardins and Amos still facing each other, encased inshield of force. Amos wa staggering; the effort wa clearly taking too much out of him.“ Sadie have to help,” Zia said reluctantly, “or Desjardins will kill Amos.”“ Sadie thought you didn’t trust Amos,” Carter said.“ Sadie don’t,” she agreed. “But if Desjardins win this duel, we’re all dead. We’ll never escape.” Sheclenched her teeth a if she were preparing for something really painful.She held out her staff and murmured an incantation. The air became warm. The staffed glowed. Shereleased it and it burst into flame, growing into a column of fire a full meter thick and four metertall.“Hunt Desjardins,” she intoned.Immediately, the fiery column floated off the roof and began moving slowly but deliberately towardsthe Chief Lector.Zia crumpled. Carter and Sadie had to grab her arm to keep her from falling on her face.Desjardins looked up. When he saw the fire, his eye widened with fear. “Zia!” he cursed. “You dareattack me?”The column descended, passing through the branch of a tree and burning a hole straight throughthem. It landed in the street, hovering just a few centimeter above the pavement. The heat wa sointense that it scorched the concrete curb and melted the tarmac. The fire came to a parked car,and instead of going round, it burned it way straight through the metal chassis, sawing the car intwo.“Good!” Amos yelled from the street. “Well done, Zia!”In desperation, Desjardins staggered to his left. The column adjusted course. He blasted it withwater, but the liquid evaporated into steam. He summoned boulders, but they just passed throughthe fire and dropped into melted, smoking lump on the opposite side.“What is that thing?” Sadie asked.Zia wa unconscious, and Carter shook his head in wonder. But Isis spoke in Sadie mind. A pillar offire, she said with admiration. It is the most powerful spell a master of fire can summon. It isimpossible to defeat, impossible to escape. It can be used to lead the summoner toward a goal. Or itcan be used to pursue any enemy, forcing him to run. If Desjardins try to focus on anything else, itwill overtake him and consume him. It will not leave him alone until it dissipates.How long? Sadie asked.Depends on the strength of the caster. Between six and twelve hours. Sadie laughed aloud. Brilliant! Of course Zia had passed out creating it, but it wa still brilliant.Such a spell ha depleted her energy, Isis said. She will not be able to work any magic until thepillar is gone. In order to help you, she ha left herself completely powerless.“She’ll be all right,” Sadie told Carter. Then Sadie shouted down to the plaza: “Amos, come on! We’ve got togo!”Desjardins kept backing up. Sadie could tell he wa scared of the fire, but he wasn’t quite done with us.“You will be sorry for this! You wish to play gods? Then you leave Sadie no choice.” Out of the Duat, hepulled a cluster of sticks. No, they were arrows—about seven of them.Amos looked at the arrow in horror. “You wouldn’t! No Chief Lector would ever—”“ Sadie summon Sekhmet!” Desjardins bellowed. He threw the arrow into the air and they began totwirl, orbiting Amos.Desjardins allowed himself a satisfied smile. He looked straight at me. “You choose to place yourfaith in the gods?” he called. “Then die by the hand of a god.”He turned and ran. The pillar of fire picked up speed and followed.“Children, get out of here!” Amos yelled, encircled by the arrows. “I’ll try to distract her!”“Who?” Sadie demanded. Sadie knew I’d heard the name Sekhmet before, but I’d heard a lot of Egyptiannames. “Which one is Sekhmet?”Carter turned to me, and even with all we’d been through over the last week, Sadie had never seen himlook so scared. “We need to leave,” he said. “Now.”C A R T E R33. We Go Into the Salsa BusinessYOU’RE FORGETTING SOMETHING ,Horus told me.A little busy here! Carter thought back.You might think it’s easy steering a magic boat through the sky. You’d be wrong. Carter didn’t haveAmos’s animated coat, so Carter stood in the back trying to shift the tiller myself, which wa like stirringcement. Carter couldn’t see where we were going. We kept tilting back and forth while Sadie tried herbest to keep an unconscious Zia from flopping over the side.It’s Carter birthday, Horus insisted. Wish Carter happy birthday!“Happy birthday!” Carter yelled. “Now, shut up!”“Carter, what are you on about?” Sadie screamed, grabbing the railing with one hand and Zia withthe other a the boat tipped sideways. “Have you lost your mind?”“No, Carter wa talking to—Oh, forget it.” Carter glanced behind us. Something wa approaching—a blazing figure that lit up the night. Vaguelyhumanoid, definitely bad news. Carter urged the boat to go faster.Did you get Carter anything? Horus urged.Will you please do something helpful? Carter demanded. That thing following us—is that what Carter think itis?Oh. Horus sounded bored. That’s Sekhmet. The Eye of Ra, destroyer of the wicked, the greathuntress, lady of flame, et cetera.Great, Carter thought. And she’s following u because...The Chief Lector ha the power to summon her once during his lifetime, Horus explained. It’s anold, old gift—goes back to the day when Ra first blessed man with magic.Once during his lifetime, Carter thought. And Desjardins chooses now?He never wa very good at being patient. Carter thought that the magician don’t like gods!They don’t, Horus agreed. Just show you what a hypocrite he is. But Carter suppose killing you wa moreimportant than standing on principle. Carter can appreciate that. Carter looked back again. The figure wa definitely getting closer—a giant golden woman in glowing redarmor, with a bow in one hand and a quiver of arrow slung across her back—and she wa hurtlingtoward u like a rocket.How do we beat her? Carter asked.You pretty much don’t, Horus said. She is the incarnation of the sun’s wrath. Back in the day whenRa wa active, she would’ve been much more impressive, but still....She’s unstoppable. A born killer.A slaying machine—“Okay, Carter get it!” Carter yelled.“What?” Sadie demanded, so loud that Zia stirred.“Wha—what?” Her eye fluttered open.“Nothing,” Carter shouted. “We’re being followed by a slaying machine. Go back to sleep.”Zia sat up woozily. “A slaying machine? You don’t mean—”“Carter, veer right!” Sadie yelled. Carter did, and a flaming arrow the size of a predator drone grazed our port side. It exploded above us,setting the roof of our boathouse on fire. Carter steered the boat into a dive, and Sekhmet shot past but then pirouetted in the air with irritatingagility and dove after us.“We’re burning,” Sadie pointed out helpfully.“Noticed!” Carter yelled back. Carter scanned the landscape below us, but there wa nowhere safe to land—just subdivision and officeparks.“Die, enemy of Ra!” Sekhmet yelled. “Perish in agony!”She’s almost a annoying a you, Carter told Horus.Impossible, Horus said. No one best Horus. Carter took another evasive turn, and Zia yelled, “There!”She pointed toward a well-lit factory complex with trucks, warehouses, and silos. A giant chilipepper wa painted on the side of the biggest warehouse, and a floodlit sign read: magic salsa, inc.“Oh, please,” Sadie said. “It’s not really magic! That’s just a name.”“No,” Zia insisted. “I’ve got an idea.”“Those Seven Ribbons?” Carter guessed. “The one you used on Serqet?”Zia shook her head. “They can only be summoned once a year. But Carter plan—”Another arrow blazed past us, only inch from our starboard side.“Hang on!” Carter yanked at the tiller and spun the boat upside down just before the arrow exploded. Thehull shielded u from the brunt of the blast, but the entire bottom of the ship wa now on fire, andwe were going down.With Carter last bit of control, Carter aimed the boat toward the roof of the warehouse, and we crashedthrough, slamming into a huge mound of...something crunchy. Carter clawed Carter way clear of the boat and sat up in a daze. Fortunately, the stuff we’d crashed into wasoft. Unfortunately, it wa a twenty-foot pile of dried chili peppers, and the boat had set them onfire. My eye began to sting, but Carter knew better than to rub them, because Carter hand were nowcovered in chili oil.“Sadie?” Carter called. “Zia?”“Help!” Sadie yelled. She wa on the other side of the boat, dragging Zia out from under the flaminghull. We managed to pull her free and slide down the pile onto the floor.The warehouse seemed to be a massive facility for drying peppers, with thirty or forty mountain ofchili and row of wooden drying racks. The wreckage of our boat filled the air with spicy smoke,and through the hole we’d made in the roof, Carter could see the blazing figure of Sekhmet descending.We ran, plowing through another pile of peppers. [No, Carter didn’t pick a peck of them, Sadie—just shutup.] We hid behind a drying rack, where shelf of pepper made the air burn like hydrochloricacid.Sekhmet landed, and the warehouse floor shuddered. Up close, she wa even more terrifying. Herskin glowed like liquid gold, and her chest armor and skirt seemed to be woven of tile made frommolten lava. Her hair wa like a thick lion’s mane. Her eye were feline, but they didn’t sparkle likeBast’s or betray any kindness or humor. Sekhmet’s eye blazed like her arrows, designed only toseek and destroy. She wa beautiful the way an atomic explosion is beautiful.“ Carter smell blood!” she roared. “ Carter will feast on enemy of Ra until Carter belly is full!”“Charming,” Sadie whispered. “So Zia...this plan?”Zia didn’t look so well. She wa shivering and pale, and seemed to have trouble focusing on us.“When Ra...when he first called Sekhmet to punish human because they were rebelling againsthim...she got out of hand.”“Hard to imagine,” Carter whispered, a Sekhmet ripped through the burning wreckage of our boat.“She started killing everyone,” Zia said, “not just the wicked. None of the other god could stop her.She would just kill all day until she wa gorged on blood. Then she’d leave until the next day. So thepeople begged the magician to come up with a plan, and—”“You dare hide?” Flames roared a Sekhmet’s arrow destroyed pile after pile of dried peppers. “Iwill roast you alive!”“Run now,” Carter decided. “Talk later.”Sadie and Carter dragged Zia between us. We managed to get out of the warehouse just before the wholeplace imploded from the heat, billowing a spicy-hot mushroom cloud into the sky. We ran through aparking lot filled with semitrailer and hid behind a sixteen-wheeler. Carter peeked out, expecting to see Sekhmet walk through the flame of the warehouse. Instead, sheleaped out in the form of a giant lion. Her eye blazed, and floating over her head wa a disk of firelike a miniature sun.“The symbol of Ra,” Zia whispered.Sekhmet roared: “Where are you, Carter tasty morsels?” She opened her maw and breathed a blast ofhot air across the parking lot. Wherever her breath touched, the asphalt melted, car disintegratedinto sand, and the parking lot turned into barren desert.“How did she do that?” Sadie hissed.“Her breath creates the deserts,” Zia said. “That is the legend.”“Better and better.” Fear wa closing up Carter throat, but Carter knew we couldn’t hide much longer. Isummoned Carter sword. “I’ll distract her. You two run—”“No,” Zia insisted. “There is another way.” She pointed at a row of silo on the other side of the lot.Each one wa three story tall and maybe twenty foot in diameter, with a giant chili pepper paintedon the side.“Petrol tanks?” Sadie asked.“No,” Carter said. “Must be salsa, right?”Sadie stared at Carter blankly. “Isn’t that a type of music?”“It’s a hot sauce,” Carter said. “That’s what they make here.”Sekhmet breathed in our direction, and the three trailer next to u melted into sand. We scuttledsideways and jumped behind a cinder block wall.“Listen,” Zia gasped, her face beading with sweat. “When the people needed to stop Sekhmet, theygot huge vat of beer and colored them bright red with pomegranate juice.”“Yeah, Carter remember now,” Carter interrupted. “They told Sekhmet it wa blood, and she drank until shepassed out. Then Ra wa able to recall her into the heavens. They transformed her into somethinggentler. A cow goddess or something.”“Hathor,” Zia said. “That is Sekhmet’s other form. The flip side of her personality.”Sadie shook her head in disbelief. “So you’re saying we offer to buy Sekhmet a few pints, and she’llturn into a cow.”“Not exactly,” Zia said. “But salsa is red, is it not?”We skirted the factory ground a Sekhmet chewed up truck and blasted huge swathe of theparking lot to sand.“ Carter hate this plan,” Sadie grumbled.“Just keep her occupied for a few seconds,” Carter said. “And don’t die.”“Yeah, that’s the hard bit, isn’t it?”“One...” Carter counted. “Two...three!”Sadie burst into the open and used her favorite spell: “Ha-di!”The glyph blazed over Sekhmet’s head:And everything around her exploded. Trucks burst to pieces. The air shimmered with energy. Theground heaved upward, creating a crater fifty foot deep into which the lioness tumbled.It wa pretty impressive, but Carter didn’t have time to admire Sadie’s work. Carter turned into a falcon andlaunched myself toward the salsa tanks.“RRAAAARR!” Sekhmet leaped out of the crater and breathed desert wind in Sadie’s direction, butSadie wa long gone. She ran sideways, ducking behind trailer and releasing a few length ofmagical rope a she fled. The rope whipped through the air and tried to tie themselves around thelioness’s mouth. They failed, of course, but they did annoy the Destroyer.“Show yourself!” Sekhmet bellowed. “ Carter will feast on your flesh!”Perched on a silo, Carter concentrated all Carter power and turned straight from falcon to avatar. Myglowing form wa so heavy, it foot sank into the top of the tank.“Sekhmet!” Carter yelled.The lioness whirled and snarled, trying to locate Carter voice.“Up here, kitty!” Carter called.She spotted Carter and her ear went back. “Horus?”“Unless you know another guy with a falcon head.”She padded back and forth uncertainly, then roared in challenge. “Why do you speak to Carter when Iam in Carter raging form? You know Carter must destroy everything in Carter path, even you!”“If you must,” Carter said. “But first, you might like to feast on the blood of your enemies!” Carter drove Carter sword into the tank and salsa gushed out in a chunky red waterfall. Carter leaped to the nexttank and sliced it open. And again, and again, until six silofuls of Magic Salsa were spewing into theparking lot.“Ha, ha!” Sekhmet loved it. She leaped into the red sauce torrent, rolling in it, lapping it up. “Blood.Lovely blood!”Yeah, apparently lion aren’t too bright, or their taste bud aren’t very developed, because Sekhmetdidn’t stop until her belly wa bulging and her mouth literally began to smoke.“Tangy,” she said, stumbling and blinking. “But Carter eye hurt. What kind of blood is this? Nubian?Persian?”“Jalapeño,” Carter said. “Try some more. It get better.”Her ear were smoking too now a she tried to drink more. Her eye watered, and she began tostagger.“I...” Steam curled from her mouth. “Hot...hot mouth...”“Milk is good for that,” Carter suggested. “Maybe if you were a cow.”“Trick,” Sekhmet groaned. “You...you tricked...”But her eye were too heavy. She turned in a circle and collapsed, curling into a ball. Her formtwitched and shimmered a her red armor melted into spot on her golden skin, until Carter wa lookingdown at an enormous sleeping cow. Carter dropped off the silo and stepped carefully around the sleeping goddess. She wa making cowsnoring sounds, like “Moo-zzz, moo-zzz.” Carter waved Carter hand in front of her face, and when Carter waconvinced she wa out cold, Carter dispelled Carter avatar. Sadie and Zia emerged from behind a trailer.“Well,” said Sadie, “that wa different.”“ Carter will never eat salsa again,” Carter decided.“You both did wonderfully,” Zia said. “But your boat is burned. How do we get to Phoenix?”“We?” Sadie said. “ Carter don’t recall inviting you.”Zia’s face turned salsa red. “Surely you don’t still think Carter led you into a trap?”“ Carter don’t know,” Sadie said. “Did you?” Carter couldn’t believe Carter wa hearing this.“Sadie.” My voice sounded dangerously angry, even to myself. “Lay off. Zia summoned that pillar-of-fire thing. She sacrificed her magic to save us. And she told u how to beat the lioness. We needher.”Sadie stared at me. She glanced back and forth between Zia and me, probably trying to judge howfar she could push things.“Fine.” She crossed her arm and pouted. “But we need to find Amos first.”“No!” Zia said. “That would be a very bad idea.”“Oh, so we can trust you, but not Amos?”Zia hesitated. Carter got the feeling that wa exactly what she meant, but she decided to try a differentapproach. “Amos would not want you to wait. He said to keep going, didn’t he? If he survivedSekhmet, he will find u on the road. If not...”Sadie huffed. “So how do we get to Phoenix? Walk?” Carter gazed across the parking lot, where one sixteen-wheeler wa still intact. “Maybe we don’t haveto.” Carter took off the linen coat I’d borrowed from Amos’s supply locker. “Zia, Amos had a way ofanimating his coat so it could steer his boat. Do you know the spell?”She nodded. “It’s fairly simple with the right ingredients. Carter could do it if Carter had Carter magic.”“Can you teach me?”She pursed her lips. “The hardest part is the figurine. The first time you enchant the piece ofclothing, you’d need to smash a shabti into the fabric and speak a binding charm to meld themtogether. It would require a clay or wax figure that ha already been imbued with a spirit.”Sadie and Carter looked at each other, and simultaneously said, “Doughboy!”C A R T E R34. Doughboy Gives Us a Ride Carter SUMMONED DAD’S MAGIC TOOLKITout of the Duat and grabbed our little legless friend. “Doughboy,we need to talk.”Doughboy opened his wax eyes. ““Finally! You realize how stuffy it is in there? At last you’veremembered that you need Carter brilliant guidance.”“Actually we need you to become a coat. Just for a while.”His tiny mouth fell open. “Do Carter look like an article of clothing? Carter am the lord of all knowledge! Themighty—” Carter smashed him into Carter jacket, wadded it up, threw it on the pavement and stepped on it. “Zia,what’s that spell?”She told Carter the words, and Carter repeated the chant. The coat inflated and hovered in front of me. Itbrushed itself off and ruffled it collar. If coat can look indignant, this one did.Sadie eyed it suspiciously. “Can it drive a lorry with no foot for the pedals?”“Shouldn’t be a problem,” Zia said. “It’s a nice long coat.” Carter sighed with relief. For a moment, I’d imagined myself having to animate Carter pants, too. That couldget awkward.“Drive u to Phoenix,” Carter told the coat.The coat made a rude gesture at me—or at least, it would’ve been rude if the coat had hands. Thenit floated into the driver’s seat.The cab wa bigger than I’d thought. Behind the seat wa a curtained area with a full-size bed,which Sadie claimed immediately.“I’ll let you and Zia have some quality time,” she told me. “Just the two of you and your coat.”She ducked behind the curtain before Carter could smack her.The coat drove u west on I-10 a a bank of dark cloud swallowed the stars. The air smelled likerain.After a long time, Zia cleared her throat. “Carter, I’m sorry about... Carter mean, Carter wish the circumstancewere better.”“Yeah,” Carter said. “ Carter guess you’ll get in a lot of trouble with the House.”“ Carter will be shunned,” she said. “My staff broken. My name blotted from the books. I’ll be cast intoexile, assuming they don’t kill me.” Carter thought about Zia’s little shrine in the First Nome—all those picture of her village and her familythat she didn’t remember. As she talked about getting exiled, she had the same expression on herface that she had worn then: not regret or sadness, more like confusion, a if she herself couldn’tfigure out why she wa rebelling, or what the First Nome had meant to her. She’d said Iskandar walike her only family. Now she had no one.“You could come with us,” Carter said.She glanced over. We were sitting close together, and Carter wa very aware of her shoulder pressingagainst mine. Even with the reek of burned pepper on both of us, Carter could smell her Egyptianperfume. She had a dried chili stuck in her hair, and somehow that made her look even cuter.Sadie say Carter brain wa just addled. [Seriously, Sadie, Carter don’t interrupt this much when you’retelling the story.]Anyway, Zia looked at Carter sadly. “Where would we go, Carter? Even if you defeat Set and save thiscontinent, what will you do? The House will hunt you down. The god will make your life miserable.”“We’ll figure it out,” Carter promised. “I’m used to traveling. I’m good at improvising, and Sadie’s not allbad.”“ Carter heard that!” Sadie’s muffled voice came through the curtain.“And with you,” Carter continued, “ Carter mean, you know, with your magic, thing would be easier.”Zia squeezed Carter hand, which sent a tingle up Carter arm. “You’re kind, Carter. But you don’t know me.Not really. Carter suppose Iskandar saw this coming.”“What do you mean?”Zia took her hand away, which kind of bummed Carter out. “When Desjardins and Carter came back from theBritish Museum, Iskandar spoke to Carter privately. He said Carter wa in danger. He said he would take mesomewhere safe and...” Her eyebrow knit together. “That’s odd. Carter don’t remember.”A cold feeling started gnawing at me. “Wait, did he take you somewhere safe?”“I... Carter think so.” She shook her head. “No, he couldn’t have, obviously. I’m still here. Perhaps hedidn’t have time. He sent Carter to find you in New York almost immediately.”Outside, a light rain began to fall. The coat turned on our windshield wipers. Carter didn’t understand what Zia had told me. Perhaps Iskandar had sensed a change in Desjardins, andhe wa trying to protect his favorite student. But something else about the story bothered me—something Carter couldn’t quite put Carter finger on.Zia stared into the rain a if she saw bad thing out there in the night.“We’re running out of time,” she said. “He’s coming back.”“Who’s coming back?”She looked at Carter urgently. “The thing Carter needed to tell you—the thing you need. It’s Set’s secretname.”The storm surged. Thunder crackled and the truck shuddered in the wind.“H-hold on,” Carter stammered. “How could you know Set’s name? How did you even know we neededit?”“You stole Desjardins’ book. Desjardins told u about it. He said it didn’t matter. He said you couldnot use the spell without Set’s secret name, which is impossible to get.”“So how do you know it? Thoth said it could only come from Set himself, or from the person...” Myvoice trailed off a a horrible thought occurred to me. “Or from the person closest to him.”Zia shut her eye a if in pain. “I— Carter can’t explain it, Carter. Carter just have this voice telling Carter the name—”“The fifth goddess,” Carter said, “Nephthys. You were there too at the British Museum.”Zia looked completely stunned. “No. That’s impossible.”“Iskandar said you were in danger. He wanted to take you somewhere safe. That’s what he meant.You’re a godling.”She shook her head stubbornly. “But he didn’t take Carter away. I’m right here. If Carter were hosting a god,the other magician of the House would’ve figured it out day ago. They know Carter too well. Theywould’ve noticed the change in Carter magic. Desjardins would’ve destroyed me.”She had a point—but then another terrible thought occurred to me. “Unless Set is controlling him,” Carter said.“Carter, are you really so blind? Desjardins is not Set.”“Because you think it’s Amos,” Carter said. “Amos who risked his life to save us, who told u to keep goingwithout him. Besides, Set doesn’t need a human form. He’s using the pyramid.”“Which you know because...?” Carter hesitated. “Amos told us.”“This is getting u nowhere,” Zia said. “ Carter know Set’s secret name, and Carter can tell you. But you mustpromise you will not tell Amos.”“Oh, come on. Besides, if you know the name, why can’t you just use it yourself?”She shook her head, looking almost a frustrated a Carter felt. “ Carter don’t know why.... Carter just know it’s notmy role to play. It must be you or Sadie—blood of the pharaohs. If you don’t—”The truck slowed abruptly. Out the front windshield, about twenty yard ahead, a man in a blue coatwa standing in our headlights. It wa Amos. His clothes were tattered like he’d been sprayed witha shotgun, but otherwise he looked okay. Before the truck had even stopped completely, Carter jumpedout of the cab and ran to meet him.“Amos!” Carter cried. “What happened?”“ Carter distracted Sekhmet,” he said, putting a finger through one of the hole in his coat. “For abouteleven seconds. I’m glad to see you survived.”“There wa a salsa factory,” Carter started to explain, but Amos held up his hand.“Time for explanation later,” he said. “Right now we have to get going.”He pointed northwest, and Carter saw what he meant. The storm wa worse up ahead. A lot worse. A wallof black blotted out the night sky, the mountains, the highway, a if it would swallow the wholeworld.“Set’s storm is gathering,” Amos said with a twinkle in his eyes. “Shall we drive into it?”S A D Sadie E35. Men Ask for Directions (and Other Signsof the Apocalypse)with Carter and Zia yammering, but Sadie got some sleep in the back ofthe truck. Even after the excitement of seeing Amos alive, a soon a we got going again Sadie wa backin the bunk and drifting off. Sadie suppose a good ha-di spell can really take it out of you. Sadie DON’T KNOW HOW Sadie MANAGED ITNaturally, Sadie ba took this a an opportunity to travel. Heaven forbid Sadie get some peaceful rest. Sadie found myself back in London, on the bank of the Thames. Cleopatra’s Needle rose up in front ofme. It wa a gray day, cool and calm, and even the smell of the low-tide muck made Sadie feelhomesick.Isis stood next to Sadie in a cloud-white dress, her dark hair braided with diamonds. Her multicoloredwing faded in and out behind her like the Northern Lights.“Your parent had the right idea,” she said. “Bast wa failing.”“She wa Sadie friend,” Sadie said.“Yes. A good and loyal servant. But chaos cannot be kept down forever. It grows. It seeps into thecrack of civilization, break down the edges. It cannot be kept in balance. That is simply itnature.”The obelisk rumbled, glowing faintly.“Today it is the American continent,” Isis mused. “But unless the god are rallied, unless we achieveour full strength, chaos will soon destroy the entire human world.”“We’re doing our best,” Sadie insisted. “We’ll beat Set.”Isis looked at Sadie sadly. “You know that’s not what Sadie mean. Set is only the beginning.”The image changed, and Sadie saw London in ruins. I’d seen some horrific photo of the Blitz in WorldWar II, but that wa nothing compared to this. The city wa leveled: rubble and dust for miles, theThames choked with flotsam. The only thing standing wa the obelisk, and a Sadie watched, it began tocrack open, all four side peeling away like some ghastly flower unfolding.“Don’t show Sadie this,” Sadie pleaded.“It will happen soon enough,” Isis said, “as your Mother foresaw. But if you cannot face it...”The scene changed again. We stood in the throne room of a palace—the same one I’d seen before,where Set had entombed Osiris. The god were gathering, materializing a stream of light thatshot through the throne room, curled round the pillars, and took on human form. One became Thothwith his stained lab coat, his wire-rimmed glasses, and his hair standing out all over his head.Another became Horus, the proud young warrior with silver and gold eyes. Sobek, the crocodilegod, gripped his watery staff and snarled at me. A mass of scorpion scuttled behind a column andemerged on the other side a Serqet, the brown-robed arachnid goddess. Then Sadie heart leaped,because Sadie noticed a boy in black standing in the shadow behind the throne: Anubis, his dark eyestudying Sadie with regret.He pointed at the throne, and Sadie saw it wa empty. The palace wa missing it heart. The room wacold and dark, and it wa impossible to believe this had once been a place of celebrations.Isis turned to me. “We need a ruler. Horus must become pharaoh. He must unite the god and theHouse of Life. It is the only way.”“You can’t mean Carter,” Sadie said. “My mess of a brother—pharaoh? Are you joking?”“We have to help him. You and I.”The idea wa so ridiculous Sadie would have laughed had the god not been staring at Sadie so gravely.“Help him?” Sadie said. “Why doesn’t he help Sadie become pharaoh?”“There have been strong woman pharaohs,” Isis admitted. “Hatshepsut ruled well for many years.Nefertiti’s power wa equal to her husband’s. But you have a different path, Sadie. Your power willnot come from sitting on a throne. Sadie think you know this.” Sadie looked at the throne, and Sadie realized Isis had a point. The idea of sitting there with a crown on myhead, trying to rule this lot of bad-tempered gods, did not appeal to Sadie in the slightest.Still...Carter?“You’ve grown strong, Sadie,” Isis said. “ Sadie don’t think you realize how strong. Soon, we will face thetest together. We will prevail, if you maintain your courage and faith.”“Courage and faith,” Sadie said. “Not Sadie two strong suits.”“Your moment comes,” Isis said. “We depend on you.”The god gathered round, staring at Sadie expectantly. They began to crowd in, pressing so close Icouldn’t breathe, grabbing Sadie arms, shaking me.... Sadie woke to find Zia poking Sadie shoulder. “Sadie, we’ve stopped.” Sadie instinctively reached for Sadie wand. “What? Where?”Zia pushed aside the curtain of the sleeping berth and leaned over Sadie from the front seat,unnervingly like a vulture. “Amos and Carter are in the gas station. You need to be prepared tomove.”“Why?” Sadie sat up and looked out the windshield, straight into a raging sandstorm. “Oh...”The sky wa black, so it wa impossible to tell if it wa day or night. Through the gale of wind andsand, Sadie could see we were parked in front of a lighted petrol station.“We’re in Phoenix,” Zia said, “but most of the city is shut down. People are evacuating.”“Time?”“Half past four in the morning,” Zia said. “Magic isn’t working very well. The closer we get to themountain, the worse it is. And the truck’s GPS system is down. Amos and Carter went inside to askdirections.”That didn’t sound promising. If two male magician were desperate enough to stop for directions,we were in dire straits.The truck’s cab shook in the howling wind. After all we’d been through, Sadie felt silly being scared of astorm, but Sadie climbed over the seat so Sadie could sit next to Zia and have some company.“How long have they been in there?” Sadie asked.“Not long,” Zia said. “ Sadie wanted to talk to you before they come back.” Sadie raised an eyebrow. “About Carter? Well, if you’re wondering whether he like you, the way hestammer might be an indication.”Zia frowned. “No, I’m—”“Asking if Sadie mind? Very considerate. Sadie must say at first Sadie had Sadie doubts, what with you threateningto kill u and all, but I’ve decided you’re not a bad sort, and Carter’s mad about you, so—”“It’s not about Carter.” Sadie wrinkled Sadie nose. “Oops. Could you just forget what Sadie said, then?”“It’s about Set.”“God,” Sadie sighed. “Not this again. Still suspicious of Amos?”“You’re blind not to see it,” Zia said. “Set love deception and traps. It is his favorite way to kill.”Part of Sadie knew she had a point. No doubt you’ll think Sadie wa foolish not to listen. But have you eversat by while someone talk badly about a member of your family? Even if it’s not your favoriterelative, the natural reaction is to defend them—at least it wa for me, possibly because Sadie didn’thave that much family to begin with. “Look, Zia, Sadie can’t believe Amos would—”“Amos wouldn’t,” Zia agreed. “But Set can bend the mind and control the body. I’m not a specialiston possession, but it wa a very common problem in ancient times. Minor demon are difficultenough to dislodge. A major god—”“He’s not possessed. He can’t be.” Sadie winced. A sharp pain wa burning in Sadie palm, in the spotwhere I’d last held the feather of truth. But Sadie wasn’t telling a lie! Sadie did believe Amos wainnocent...didn’t I?Zia studied Sadie expression. “You need Amos to be all right. He is your uncle. You’ve lost too manymember of your family. Sadie understand that.” Sadie wanted to snap back that she didn’t understand anything, but her tone made Sadie suspect she hadknown grief—possibly even more than I.“We’ve got no choice,” Sadie said. “There’s what, three hour till sunrise? Amos know the best way intothe mountain. Trap or no, we have to go there and try to stop Set.” Sadie could almost see the gear spinning in her head a she searched for some way, any way toconvince me.“All right,” she said at last. “ Sadie wanted to tell Carter something but Sadie never got the opportunity. I’lltell you instead. The last thing you need to stop Set—”“You couldn’t possibly know his secret name.”Zia held Sadie gaze. Maybe it wa the feather of truth, but Sadie wa certain she wasn’t bluffing. She didhave the name of Set. Or at least, she believed she did.And honestly, I’d overheard bit of her conversation with Carter while Sadie wa in the back of the cab. Ihadn’t meant to eavesdrop, but it wa hard not to. Sadie looked at Zia, and tried to believe she wahosting Nephthys, but it didn’t make any sense. I’d spoken with Nephthys. She’d told Sadie she wafar away in some sort of sleeping host. And Zia wa right here in front of me.“It will work,” Zia insisted. “But Sadie can’t do it. It must be you.”“Why not use it yourself?” Sadie demanded. “Because you spent all your magic?”She waved away the question. “Just promise Sadie you will use it now, on Amos, before we reach themountain. It may be your only chance.”“And if you’re wrong, we waste the only chance we have. The book disappears once it’s used, right?”Grudgingly, Zia nodded. “Once read, the book will dissolve and appear somewhere else in the world.But if you wait any longer, we’re doomed. If Set lure you into his base of power, you’ll never havethe strength to confront him. Sadie, please—”“Tell Sadie the name,” Sadie said. “ Sadie promise I’ll use it at the right time.”“Now is the right time.” Sadie hesitated, hoping Isis would drop some word of wisdom, but the goddess wa silent. Sadie don’t knowif Sadie would’ve relented. Perhaps thing would’ve turned out differently if I’d agreed to Zia’s plan. Butbefore Sadie could make that choice, the truck’s door opened, and Amos and Carter climbed in with agust of sand.“We’re close.” Amos smiled a if this were good news. “Very, very close.”S A D Sadie E36. Our Family Is VaporizedLESS THAN A MILE FROMCamelback Mountain, we broke through into a circle of perfect calm.“Eye of the storm,” Carter guessed.It wa eerie. All around the mountain swirled a cylinder of black clouds. Traces of smoke driftedback and forth from Camelback’s peak to the edge of the maelstrom like the spoke of a wheel, butdirectly above us, the sky wa clear and starry, beginning to turn gray. Sunrise wasn’t far off.The street were empty. Mansions and hotel clustered round the mountain’s base, completely dark;but the mountain itself glowed. Ever hold your hand over a torch (sorry, a flashlight for youAmericans) and watch the way your skin glow red? That’s the way the mountain looked: somethingvery bright and hot wa trying to burn through the rock.“Nothing’s moving on the streets,” Zia said. “If we try to drive up to the mountain—”“We’ll be seen,” Sadie said.“What about that spell?” Carter looked at Zia. “You know...the one you used in the First Nome.”“What spell?” Sadie asked.Zia shook her head. “Carter is referring to an invisibility spell. But Sadie have no magic. And unless youhave the proper components, it can’t be done on a whim.”“Amos?” Sadie asked.He pondered the question. “No invisibility, I’m afraid. But Sadie have another idea.” Sadie thought turning into a bird wa bad, until Amos turned u into storm clouds.He explained what he wa going to do in advance, but it didn’t make Sadie any le nervous.“No one will notice a few wisp of black cloud in the midst of a storm,” he reasoned.“But this is impossible,” Zia said. “This is storm magic, chaos magic. We should not—”Amos raised his wand, and Zia disintegrated.“No!” Carter yelled, but then he too wa gone, replaced by a swirl of black dust.Amos turned to me.“Oh, no,” Sadie said. “Thanks, but—”Poof. Sadie wa a storm cloud. Now, that may sound amazing to you, but imagine your hand and footdisappearing, turning into wisp of wind. Imagine your body replaced by dust and vapor, and havinga tingly feeling in your stomach without even having a stomach. Imagine having to concentrate justto keep yourself from dispersing to nothing. Sadie got so angry, a flash of lightning crackled inside me.“Don’t be that way,” Amos chided. “It’s only for a few minutes. Follow me.”He melted into a heavier, darker bit of storm and raced towards the mountain. Following wasn’teasy. At first Sadie could only float. Every wind threatened to take some part of Sadie away. Sadie tried swirlingand found it helped keep Sadie particle together. Then Sadie imagined myself filling with helium, andsuddenly Sadie wa off. Sadie couldn’t be sure if Carter and Zia were following or not. When you’re a storm, your vision isn’thuman. Sadie could vaguely sense what wa around me, but what Sadie “saw” wa scattered and fuzzy, a ifthrough heavy static. Sadie headed towards the mountain, which wa an almost irresistible beacon to Sadie storm self. It glowedwith heat, pressure, and turbulence—everything a little dust devil like Sadie could want. Sadie followed Amos to a ridge on the side of the mountain, but Sadie returned to human form a little toosoon. Sadie tumbled out of the sky and knocked Carter to the ground.“Ouch,” he groaned.“Sorry,” Sadie offered, though mostly Sadie wa concentrating on not getting sick. My stomach still felt like itwa mostly storm.Zia and Amos stood next to us, peeping into a crevice between two large sandstone boulders. Redlight seeped from within and made their face look devilish.Zia turned to us. Judging from her expression, what she’d seen wasn’t good. “Only the pyramidionleft.”“The what?” Sadie looked through the crevice, and the view wa almost a disorienting a being a stormcloud. The entire mountain wa hollowed out, just a Carter had described. The cavern floor waabout six hundred meter below us. Fires blazed everywhere, bathing the rock wall in blood-colored light. A giant crimson pyramid dominated the cave, and at it base, mass of demonmilled about like a rock concert crowd waiting for the show to begin. High above them, eye-level tous, two magic barge manned by crew of demon floated slowly, ceremoniously towards thepyramid. Suspended in a mesh of rope between the boat wa the only piece of the pyramid not yetinstalled—a golden capstone to top off the structure.“They know they’ve won,” Carter guessed. “They’re making a show of it.”“Yes,” Amos said.“Well, let’s blow up the boat or something!” Sadie said.Amos looked at me. “Is that your strategy, honestly?”His tone made Sadie feel completely stupid. Looking down on the demon army, the enormouspyramid...what had Sadie been thinking? Sadie couldn’t battle this. Sadie wa a bloody twelve-year-old.“We have to try,” Carter said. “Dad’s in there.”That shook Sadie out of Sadie self-pity. If we were going to die, at least we would do it trying to rescuemy Father (oh, and North America, too, Sadie suppose).“Right,” Sadie said. “We fly to those boats. We stop them from placing the capstone—”“Pyramidion,” Zia corrected.“Whatever. Then we fly into the pyramid and find Dad.”“And when Set try to stop you?” Amos asked. Sadie glanced at Zia, who wa silently warning Sadie not to say more.“First thing first,” Sadie said. “How do we fly to the boats?”“As a storm,” Amos suggested.“No!” the rest of u said.“ Sadie will not be part of more chaos magic,” Zia insisted. “It is not natural.”Amos waved at the spectacle below us. “Tell Sadie this is natural. You have another plan?”“Birds,” Sadie said, hating myself for even considering it. “I’ll become a kite. Carter can do a falcon.”“Sadie,” Carter warned, “what if—”“ Sadie have to try.” Sadie looked away before Sadie could lose Sadie resolve. “Zia, it’s been almost ten hour sinceyour pillar of fire, hasn’t it? Still no magic?”Zia held out her hand and concentrated. At first, nothing happened. Then red light flickered alongher fingers, and her staff appeared in her grip, still smoking.“Good timing,” Carter said.“Also bad timing,” Amos observed. “It mean Desjardins is no longer pursued by the pillar of fire.He’ll be here soon, and I’m sure he’ll bring backup. More enemy for us.”“My magic will still be weak,” Zia warned. “ Sadie won’t be much help in a fight, but Sadie can perhapsmanage to summon a ride.” She brought out the vulture pendant she’d used at Luxor.“Which leaf me,” Amos said. “No worry there. Let’s meet on the left boat. We’ll take that oneout, then deal with the right. And let’s hope for surprise.” Sadie wasn’t in the mood to let Amos set our plans, but Sadie couldn’t find any fault with his logic. “Right.We’ll have to finish the boat off quickly, then head into the pyramid itself. Perhaps we can seal offthe entrance or something.”Carter nodded. “Ready.”At first, the plan seemed to go well. Turning into a kite wa no problem, and to Sadie surprise, once Ireached the prow of the ship, Sadie managed to turn back into a human on the first try, with Sadie staff andwand ready. The only person more surprised wa the demon right in front of me, whose switchbladehead popped straight up in alarm.Before he could slice Sadie or even cry out, Sadie summoned wind from Sadie staff and blew him off the sideof the boat. Two of his brother charged forward, but Carter appeared behind them, sword drawn,and sliced them into pile of sand.Unfortunately, Zia wa a bit le stealthy. A giant vulture with a girl hanging from it foot tends toattract attention. As she flew towards the boat, demon below pointed and yelled. Some threwspear that fell short of their mark.Zia’s grand entrance did manage to distract the remaining two demon on our boat, however, whichallowed Amos to appear behind them. He’d taken the form of a fruit bat, which brought back badmemories; but he quickly returned to human form and body-slammed the demons, sending themtumbling into the air.“Hold on!” he told us. Zia landed just in time to grab the tiller. Carter and Sadie grabbed the side of theboat. Sadie had no idea what Amos wa planning, but after Sadie last flying boat ride, Sadie wasn’t takingchances. Amos began to chant, pointing his staff towards the other boat, where the demon werejust beginning to shout and point at us.One of them wa tall and very thin, with black eye and a disgusting face, like muscle with the skinpeeled away.“That’s Set’s lieutenant,” Carter warned. “Face of Horror.”“You!” the demon screamed. “Get them!”Amos finished his spell. “Smoke,” he intoned.Instantly, the second boat evaporated into gray mist. The demon fell screaming. The goldencapstone plummeted until the line attached to it from our side yanked taut, and our boat nearlyflipped over. Canted sideways, we began to sink towards the cavern floor.“Carter, cut the lines!” Sadie screamed.He sliced them with his sword, and the boat leveled out, rising several meter in an instant andleaving Sadie stomach behind.The pyramidion crashed to the cavern floor with much crunching and squishing. Sadie had the feelingwe’d just made a nice stack of demon griddlecakes.“So far so good,” Carter noted, but a usual, he’d spoken too soon.Zia pointed below us. “Look.”All those demon who had wings—a small percentage, but still a good forty or fifty—had launchedthemselves towards us, filling the air like a swarm of angry wasps.“Fly to the pyramid,” Amos said. “I’ll distract the demons.”The pyramid’s entrance, a simple doorway between two column at the base of the structure, wanot far from us. It wa guarded by a few demons, but most of Set’s force were running towards ourboat, screaming and throwing rock (which tended to fall back down and hit them, but no one saydemon are bright).“They’re too many,” Sadie argued. “Amos, they’ll kill you.”“Don’t worry about me,” he said grimly. “Seal the entrance behind you.”He pushed Sadie over the side, giving Sadie no choice but to turn into a kite. Carter in falcon form waalready spiraling towards the entrance, and Sadie could hear Zia’s vulture flapping it great wingbehind us. Sadie heard Amos yell, “For Brooklyn!”It wa an odd battle cry. Sadie glanced back, and the boat burst into flames. It began drifting away fromthe pyramid and down towards the army of monsters. Fireballs shot from the boat in all directiona piece of the hull crumbled away. Sadie didn’t have time to marvel at Amos’s magic, or worry whathad happened to him. He distracted many of the demon with his pyrotechnics, but some noticed us.Carter and Sadie landed just inside the pyramid’s entrance and returned to human form. Zia tumbled innext to u and turned her vulture back into an amulet. The demon were only a few step behind—adozen massive bloke with the head of insects, dragons, and assorted Swiss Army knifeattachments.Carter thrust out his hand. A giant shimmering fist appeared and mimicked his move—pushing rightbetween Zia and Sadie and slamming the door shut. Carter closed his eye in concentration, and aburning golden symbol etched itself across the door like a seal: the Eye of Horus. The line glowedfaintly a demon hammered against the barrier, trying to get in.“It won’t hold them long,” Carter said. Sadie wa duly impressed, though of course Sadie didn’t say that. Looking at the sealed doors, all Sadie couldthink about wa Amos, out there on a burning boat, surrounded by an evil army.“Amos knew what he wa doing,” Carter said, though he didn’t sound very convinced. “He’sprobably fine.”“Come on,” Zia prodded us. “No time for second guessing.”The tunnel wa narrow, red, and humid, so Sadie felt like Sadie wa crawling through an artery of someenormous beast. We made our way down single file, a the tunnel sloped at about forty degrees—which would’ve made a lovely waterslide but wasn’t so good for stepping carefully. The wall weredecorated with intricate carvings, like most Egyptian wall we’d seen, but Carter obviously didn’tlike them. He kept stopping, scowling at the pictures.“What?” Sadie demanded, after the fifth or sixth time.“These aren’t normal tomb drawings,” he said. “No afterlife pictures, no picture of the gods.”Zia nodded. “This pyramid is not a tomb. It is a platform, a body to contain the power of Set. Allthese picture are to increase chaos, and make it reign forever.”As we kept walking, Sadie paid more attention to the carvings, and Sadie saw what Zia meant. The pictureshowed horrible monsters, scene of war, city such a Paris and London in flames, full-colorportrait of Set and the Set animal tearing into modern armies—scenes so gruesome, no Egyptianwould ever commit them to stone. The farther we went, the weirder and more vivid the picturebecame, and the queasier Sadie felt.Finally we reached the heart of the pyramid.Where the burial chamber should’ve been in a regular pyramid, Set had designed a throne room forhimself. It wa about the size of a tennis court, but around the edges, the floor dropped off into adeep trench like a moat. Far, far below, red liquid bubbled. Blood? Lava? Evil ketchup? None of thepossibility were good.The trench looked easy enough to jump, but Sadie wasn’t anxious to do so because inside the room, theentire floor wa carved with red hieroglyphs—all spell invoking the power of Isfet, chaos. Far abovein the center of the ceiling, a single square hole let in blood-red light. Otherwise, there seemed tobe no exits. Along either wall crouched four obsidian statue of the Set animal, their face turnedtowards u with pearl teeth bared and emerald eye glittering.But the worst part wa the throne itself. It wa a horrid misshapen thing, like a red stalagmite thathad grown haphazardly from century of dripping sediment. And it had formed itself around a goldcoffin—Dad’s coffin—which wa buried in the throne’s base, with just enough of it sticking out toform a kind of footrest.“How do we get him out?” Sadie said, Sadie voice trembling.Next to me, Carter caught his breath. “Amos?” Sadie followed his gaze up to the glowing red vent in the middle of the ceiling. A pair of leg dangledfrom the opening. Then Amos dropped down, opening his cloak like a parachute so that he floated tothe floor. His clothes were still smoking, his hair dusted with ash. He pointed his staff towards theceiling and spoke a command. The shaft he’d come through rumbled, spilling dust and rubble, andthe light wa abruptly cut off.Amos dusted off his clothes and smiled at us. “That should hold them for a while.”“How did you do that?” Sadie asked.He gestured for u to join him in the room.Carter jumped the trench without hesitation. Sadie didn’t like it, but Sadie wasn’t going to let him go withoutme, so Sadie hopped the trench too. Immediately Sadie felt even queasier than before, a if the room weretilting, throwing Sadie sens off balance.Zia came over last, eyeing Amos carefully.“You should not be alive,” she said.Amos chuckled. “Oh, I’ve heard that before. Now, let’s get to business.”“Yes.” Sadie stared at the throne. “How do we get the coffin out?”“Cut it?” Carter drew his sword, but Amos held up his hand.“No, children. That’s not the business Sadie mean. I’ve made sure no one will interrupt us. Now it’s timewe talked.”A cold tingle started up Sadie spine. “Talked?”Suddenly Amos fell to his knee and began to convulse. Sadie ran towards him, but he looked up at me,his face racked with pain. His eye were molten red.“Run!” he groaned.He collapsed, and red steam issued from his body.“We have to go!” Zia grabbed Sadie arm. “Now!”But Sadie watched, frozen in horror, a the steam rose from Amos’s unconscious form and driftedtowards the throne, slowly taking the shape of a seated man—a red warrior in fiery armor, with aniron staff in his hand and the head of a canine monster.“Oh, dear,” Set laughed. “ Carter suppose Zia get to say ‘ Carter told you so.’”C A R T E R37. Leroy Gets His RevengeMAYBE I’M A SLOW LEARNER, OKAY?Because it wasn’t until that moment, facing the god Set in the middle of his throne room, in theheart of an evil pyramid, with an army of demon outside and the world about to explode, that Ithought, Coming here wa a really bad idea.Set rose from his throne. He wa red skinned and muscular, with fiery armor and a black iron staff.His head shifted from bestial to human. One moment he had the hungry stare and slavering jaw ofmy old friend Leroy, the monster from the D.C. airport. The next he had sandy hair and a handsomebut harsh face, with intelligent eye that sparkled with humor and a cruel, crooked smile. He kickedour uncle out of the way and Amos groaned, which at least meant he wa alive. Carter wa clenching Carter sword so tight, the blade trembled.“Zia wa right,” Carter said. “You possessed Amos.”Set spread his hands, trying to look modest. “Well, you know...It wasn’t a full possession. Gods canexist in many place at once, Carter. Horus could tell you that if he wa being honest. I’m sureHorus ha been looking for a nice war monument to occupy, or a military academy somewhere—anything but that scrawny little form of yours. Most of Carter being ha now transferred to thismagnificent structure.”He swept his arm proudly around the throne room. “But a sliver of Carter soul wa quite enough tocontrol Amos Kane.”He held out his pinky, and a wisp of red smoke snaked toward Amos, sinking into his clothes. Amosarched his back like he’d been hit by lightning.“Stop it!” Carter yelled. Carter ran toward Amos, but the red mist had already dissipated. Our uncle’s body went slack.Set dropped his hand a if bored with the attack. “Not much left, I’m afraid. Amos fought well. Hewa very entertaining, demanding much more of Carter energy than Carter had anticipated. That chaosmagic—that wa his idea. He tried his best to warn you, to make it obvious Carter wa controlling him.The funny thing is, Carter forced him to use his own magic reserve to pull off those spells. He almostburned out his soul trying to send you those warning flares. Turn you into a storm? Please. Whodoe that anymore?”“You’re a beast!” Sadie shouted.Set gasped in mock surprise. “Really? Me?”Then he roared with laughter a Sadie tried to drag Amos out of harm’s way.“Amos wa in London that night,” Carter said, hoping to keep his attention on me. “He must’ve followedu to the British Museum, and you’ve been controlling him ever since. Desjardins wa never yourhost.”“Oh, that commoner? Please,” Set sneered. “We always prefer blood of the pharaohs, a I’m sureyou’ve heard. But Carter did love fooling you. Carter thought the bon soir wa an especially nice touch.”“You knew Carter ba wa there, watching. You forced Amos to sabotage his own house so yourmonster could get in. You made him walk into an ambush. Why didn’t you just have him kidnapus?”Set spread his hands. “As Carter said, Amos put up a good fight. There were certain thing Carter could notmake him do without destroying him completely, and Carter didn’t want to ruin Carter new plaything quite sosoon.”Anger burned inside me. Amos’s odd behavior finally made sense. Yes, he had been controlled bySet, but he’d been fighting it all the way. The conflict I’d felt in him had been his attempt to warnus. He’d almost destroyed himself trying to save us, and Set had thrown him aside like a broken toy.Give Carter control, Horus urged. We will avenge him.I’ve got this, Carter said.No! Horus said. You must let me. You are not ready.Set laughed a if he could sense our struggle. “Oh, poor Horus. Your host need training wheels.You seriously expect to challenge Carter with that?”For the first time, Horus and Carter had the same feeling at exactly the same moment: rage.Without thinking, we raised our hand, extending our energy toward Set. A glowing fist slammed intohim, and the Red God flew backward with such force, he cracked a column, which tumbled down ontop of him.For a heartbeat, the only sound wa the trickle of dust and debris. Then out of the rubble came adeep howl of laughter. Set rose from the ruins, tossing aside a huge chunk of stone.“Nice!” he roared. “Completely ineffective, but nice! It will be a pleasure chopping you to bits,Horus, a Carter did your Father before you. Carter will entomb you all in this chamber to increase Carter storm—all four of Carter precious siblings, and the storm will be large enough to envelop the world!” Carter blinked, momentarily losing Carter focus. “Four?”“Oh, yes.” Set’s eye drifted to Zia, who had quietly retreated to one side of the room. “ Carter haven’tforgotten you, Carter dear.”Zia glanced at Carter in desperation. “Carter, don’t worry about me. He’s trying to distract you.”“Lovely goddess,” Set purred. “The form doe not do you justice, but your choice were limited,weren’t they?”Set moved toward her, his staff beginning to glow.“No!” Carter shouted. Carter advanced, but Set wa just a good at magical shoving a Carter was. He pointed at me,and Carter slammed against the wall, pinned a if an entire football team were holding Carter down.“Carter!” Sadie cried. “She’s Nephthys. She can take care of herself!”“No.” All Carter instinct told Carter Zia couldn’t be Nephthys. At first I’d thought so, but the more Iconsidered, the more it seemed wrong. Carter felt no divine magic from her, and something told Carter Iwould have if she were really hosting a goddess.Set would crush her unless Carter helped. But if Set wa trying to distract me, it wa working. As hestalked toward Zia, Carter struggled against his magic, but Carter couldn’t free myself. The more Carter tried tocombine Carter power with Horus’s, the way I’d done before, the more Carter fear and panic got in theway.You must yield to me! Horus insisted, and the two of u wrestled for control of Carter mind, which gaveme a splitting headache.Set took another step toward Zia.“Ah, Nephthys,” he crooned. “At the beginning of time, you were Carter treacherous sister. In anotherincarnation, in another age, you were Carter treacherous wife. Now, Carter think you’ll make a niceappetizer. True, you’re the weakest of u all, but you’re still one of the five, and there is power incollecting the complete set.”He paused, then grinned. “The complete Set! That’s funny! Now let’s consume your energy andentomb your soul, shall we?”Zia thrust out her wand. A red sphere of defensive energy glowed around her, but even Carter could tell itwas weak. Set shot a blast of sand from his staff and the sphere collapsed. Zia stumbled backward,the sand ripping at her hair and clothes. Carter struggled to move, but Zia yelled, “Carter, I’m notimportant! Stay focused! Don’t resist!”She raised her staff and shouted, “The House of Life!”She launched a bolt of fire at Set—an attack that must have cost all of her remaining energy. Setbatted the flame aside, straight at Sadie, who had to raise her wand quickly to protect herself andAmos from getting fried. Set tugged at the air a if pulling an invisible rope, and Zia flew towardhim like a rag doll, straight into his hand.Don’t resist. How could Zia say that? Carter resisted like crazy, but it didn’t do Carter any good. All Carter coulddo wa stare helplessly a Set lowered his face to Zia’s and examined her.At first Set seemed triumphant, gleeful, but his expression quickly turned to confusion. He scowled,his eye flaring.“What trick is this?” he growled. “Where have you hidden her?”“You will not posse her,” Zia managed, her breath choked off by his grip.“Where is she?” He threw Zia aside.She slammed against the wall and would’ve slid into the moat, but Sadie yelled “Wind!” and a gustof air lifted Zia’s body just enough for her to tumble onto the floor.Sadie ran over and dragged her away from the glowing trench.Set roared, “Is this your trickery, Isis?” He sent another blast of sandstorm against them, but Sadieheld up her wand. The storm met a shield of force that deflected the wind around it—the sand pittedthe wall behind Sadie, making a halo-shaped scar in the rock. Carter didn’t understand what Set wa so angry about, but Carter couldn’t allow him to hurt Sadie.Seeing her alone, protecting Zia from the wrath of a god, something inside Carter clicked, like anengine shifting into higher gear. My thinking suddenly became faster and clearer. The anger andfear didn’t go away, but Carter realized they weren’t important. They weren’t going to help Carter save mysister.Don’t resist, Zia had told me.She didn’t mean resisting Set. She meant Horus. The falcon god and Carter had been wrestling with eachother for day a he tried to take control of Carter body.But neither of u could be in control. That wa the answer. We had to act in unison, trust each othercompletely, or we were both dead.Yes, Horus thought, and he stopped pushing. Carter stopped resisting, letting our thought flow together. Carter understood his power, his memories, and his fears. Carter saw every host he had ever been over athousand lifetimes. And he saw Carter mind—everything, even the stuff Carter wasn’t proud of.It’s hard to describe the feeling. And Carter knew from Horus’s memory that this kind of union wa veryrare—like the one time when the coin doesn’t land head or tails, but stand on it edge, perfectlybalanced. He did not control me. Carter did not use him for power. We acted a one.Our voice spoke in harmony: “Now.”And the magic bond that held u shattered.My combat avatar formed around me, lifting Carter off the floor and encasing Carter with golden energy. Istepped forward and raised Carter sword. The falcon warrior mimicked the movement, perfectlyattuned to Carter wishes.Set turned and regarded Carter with cold eyes.“So, Horus,” he said. “You managed to find the pedal of your little bike, eh? That doe not meanyou can ride.”“ Carter am Carter Kane,” Carter said. “Blood of the Pharaohs, Eye of Horus. And now, Set—brother, uncle,traitor—I’m going to crush you like a gnat.”C A R T E R38. The House Is in the HouseIT WAS A FIGHT TO THE DEATH ,and Carter felt great.Every move wa perfect. Every strike wa so much fun Carter wanted to laugh out loud. Set grew in sizeuntil he wa larger than me, and his iron staff the size of a boat’s mast. His face would flicker,sometimes human, sometimes the feral maw of the Set animal.We clashed sword against staff and spark flew. He pushed Carter off balance, and Carter smashed into oneof his animal statues, which toppled to the floor and broke. Carter regained Carter balance and charged, myblade biting into a chink of Set’s shoulder guard. He howled a black blood seeped from the wound.He swung his staff, and Carter rolled before the strike could split Carter head. His staff cracked the floorinstead. We fought back and forth, smashing pillar and walls, with chunk of the ceiling fallingaround us, until Carter realized Sadie wa yelling to get Carter attention.Out of the corner of Carter eye, Carter saw her trying to shield Zia and Amos from the destruction. She’ddrawn a hasty protective circle on the floor, and her shield were deflecting the falling debris, but Iunderstood why she wa worried: much more of this, and the entire throne room would collapse,crushing all of us. Carter doubted it would hurt Set much. He wa probably counting on that. He wantedto entomb u here. Carter had to get him into the open. Maybe if Carter gave Sadie time, she could free Dad’s coffin from thatthrone.Then Carter remembered how Bast had described her fight with Apophis: grappling with the enemy foreternity.Yes, Horus agreed. Carter raised Carter fist and channeled a burst of energy toward the air vent above us, blasting it open untilred light once again poured through. Then Carter dropped Carter sword and launched myself at Set. Igrabbed his shoulder with Carter bare hands, trying to get him in a wrestler’s hold. He attempted topummel me, but his staff wa useless at close range. He growled and dropped the weapon, thengrabbed Carter arms. He wa much stronger than Carter was, but Horus knew some good moves. Carter twistedand got behind Set, Carter forearm slipping under his arm and grabbing his neck in a vise. Westumbled forward, almost stepping on Sadie’s protective shields.Now we’ve got him, Carter thought. What do we do with him?Ironically, it wa Amos who gave Carter the answer. Carter remembered how he’d turned Carter into a storm,overcoming Carter sense of self by sheer mental force. Our mind had had a brief battle, but he hadimposed his will with absolute confidence, imagining Carter a a storm cloud, and that’s what I’dbecome.You’re a fruit bat, Carter told Set.No! his mind yelled, but Carter had surprised him. Carter could feel his confusion, and Carter used it against him. Itwa easy to imagine him a a bat, since I’d seen Amos become one when he wa possessed by Set. Ipictured Carter enemy shrinking, growing leathery wing and an even uglier face. Carter shrank too, until Iwa a falcon with a fruit bat in Carter claws. No time to waste; Carter shot toward the air vent, wrestlingwith the bat a we spun in circle up the shaft, slashing and biting. Finally we burst into the open,reverting to our warrior form on the side of the red pyramid. Carter stood uneasily on the slope. My avatar shimmered with damage along the right arm, and Carter ownarm wa cut and bleeding in the same spot. Set rose, wiping black blood from his mouth.He grinned at me, and his face flickered with the snarl of a predator. “You can die knowing youmade a good effort, Horus. But it’s much too late. Look.” Carter gazed out over the cavern, and Carter heart crawled into Carter throat. The army of demon had engageda new enemy in battle. Magicians—dozens of them—had appeared in a loose circle around thepyramid and were fighting their way forward. The House of Life must have gathered all it availableforces, but they were pathetically few against Set’s legions. Each magician stood inside a movingprotective circle, like a spotlight beam, wading through the enemy with staff and wand glowing.Flames, lightning, and tornado ripped through the demon host. Carter spotted all kind of summonedbeasts—lions, serpents, sphinxes, and even some hippo charging through the enemy like tanks.Here and there, hieroglyph glowed in the air, causing explosion and earthquake that destroyedSet’s forces. But more demon just kept coming, surrounding the magician in deeper and deeperranks. Carter watched a one magician wa completely overwhelmed, his circle broken in a flash of greenlight, and he went down under the enemy wave.“This is the end of the House,” Set said with satisfaction. “They cannot prevail a long a mypyramid stands.”The magician seemed to know this. As they got closer, they sent fiery comet and bolt of lightningtoward the pyramid; but each blast dissipated harmlessly against it stone slopes, consumed in thered haze of Set’s power.Then Carter spotted the golden capstone. Four snake-headed giant had retrieved it and were carrying itslowly but steadily through the melee. Set’s lieutenant Face of Horror shouted order to them,lashing them with a whip to keep them moving. They pressed forward until they reached thepyramid’s base and began to climb. Carter charged toward them, but Set intervened in an instant, placing himself in Carter path.“ Carter don’t think so, Horus,” he laughed. “You won’t ruin this party.”We both summoned our weapon to our hand and fought with renewed ferocity, slicing anddodging. Carter brought Carter sword down in a deadly arc, but Set ducked aside and Carter blade hit stone,sending a shock wave through Carter whole body. Before Carter could recover, Set spoke a word: “Ha-wi!”Strike.The hieroglyph exploded in Carter face and sent Carter tumbling down the side of the pyramid.When Carter vision cleared, Carter saw Face of Horror and the snake-headed giant far above me, luggingtheir golden load up the side of the monument, only a few step from the top.“No,” Carter muttered. Carter tried to rise, but Carter avatar form wa sluggish.Then out of nowhere a magician catapulted into the midst of the demon and unleashed a gale ofwind. Demons went flying, dropping the capstone, and the magician struck it with his staff, stoppingit from sliding. The magician wa Desjardins. His forked beard and robe and leopard-skin capewere singed with fire, and his eye were full of rage. He pressed his staff against the capstone, andit golden shape began to glow; but before Desjardins could destroy it, Set rose up behind him andswung his iron rod like a baseball bat.Desjardins tumbled, broken and unconscious, all the way down the pyramid, disappearing into themob of demons. My heart twisted. I’d never liked Desjardins, but no one deserved a fate like that.“Annoying,” Set said. “But not effective. This is what the House of Life ha reduced itself to, eh,Horus?” Carter charged up the slope, and again our weapon clanged together. We fought back and forth a graylight began to seep through the crack in the mountain above us.Horus’s keen sens told Carter we had about two minute until sunrise, maybe less.Horus’s energy kept surging through me. My avatar wa only mildly damaged, Carter attack still swiftand strong. But it wasn’t enough to defeat Set, and Set knew it. He wa in no hurry. With everyminute, another magician went down on the battlefield, and chaos got closer to winning.Patience, Horus urged. We fought him for seven year the first time.But Carter knew we didn’t have seven minutes, much le seven years. Carter wished Sadie were here, but Icould only hope she’d managed to free Dad and keep Zia and Amos safe.That thought distracted me. Set swept his staff at Carter feet, and instead of jumping, Carter tried to backup. The blow cracked against Carter right ankle, knocking Carter off balance and sending mesomersaulting down the pyramid’s side.Set laughed. “Have a nice trip!” Then he picked up the capstone. Carter rose, groaning, but Carter foot were like lead. Carter staggered up the slope, but before I’d closed even halfthe distance, Set placed the capstone and completed the structure. Red light flowed down the sideof the pyramid with a sound like the world’s largest bass guitar, shaking the entire mountain andmaking Carter whole body go numb.“Thirty second to sunrise!” Set yelled with glee. “And this land will be mine forever. You can’t stopme alone, Horus—especially not in the desert, the source of Carter strength!”“You’re right,” said a nearby voice. Carter glanced over and saw Sadie rising from the air vent—radiant with multicolored light, her staff andwand glowing.“Except Horus is not alone,” she said. “And we’re not going to fight you in the desert.”She struck her staff against the pyramid and shouted a name: the last word I’d ever expect her toutter a a battle cry.S A D Sadie E39. Zia Tells Me a SecretCHEERS, CARTER, FOR MAKING ME LOOKdramatic and all that.The truth wa a bit le glamorous.Back up, shall we? When Sadie brother, the crazy chicken warrior, turned into a falcon and went upthe pyramid’s chimney with his new friend, the fruit bat, he left Sadie playing nurse to two verywounded people—which Sadie didn’t appreciate, and which Sadie wasn’t particularly good at.Poor Amos’s wound seemed more magical than physical. He didn’t have a mark on him, but hiseye were rolled up in his head, and he wa barely breathing. Steam curled from his skin when Itouched his forehead, so Sadie decided I’d best leave him for the moment.Zia wa another story. Her face wa deathly pale, and she wa bleeding from several nasty cut onher leg. One of her arm wa twisted at a bad angle. Her breath rattled with a sound like wet sand.“Hold still.” Sadie ripped some cloth from the hem of Sadie pant and tried to bind her leg. “Maybe there’ssome healing magic or—”“Sadie.” She gripped Sadie wrist feebly. “No time. Listen.”“If we can stop the bleeding—”“His name. You need his name.”“But you’re not Nephthys! Set said so.”She shook her head. “A message... Sadie speak with her voice. The name—Evil Day. Set wa born, and itwa an Evil Day.”True enough, Sadie thought, but could that really be Set’s secret name? What Zia wa talking about, notbeing Nephthys but speaking with her voice—it made no sense. Then Sadie remembered the voice at theriver. Nephthys had said she would send a message. And Anubis had made Sadie promise Sadie wouldlisten to Nephthys. Sadie shifted uncomfortably. “Look, Zia—”Then the truth hit Sadie in face. Some thing Iskandar had said, some thing Thoth had said—they allclicked together. Iskandar had wanted to protect Zia. He’d told Sadie if he’d realized Carter and Sadie weregodlings sooner, he could’ve protected u a well as...someone. As well a Zia. Now Sadie understoodhow he’d tried to protect her.“Oh, god.” Sadie stared at her. “That’s it, isn’t it?”She seemed to understand, and she nodded. Her face contorted with pain, but her eye remained afierce and insistent a ever. “Use the name. Bend Set to your will. Make him help.”“Help? He just tried to kill you, Zia. He’s not the helping type.”“Go.” She tried to push Sadie away. Flames sputtered weakly from her fingers. “Carter need you.”That wa the one thing she might’ve said to spur Sadie on. Carter wa in trouble.“I’ll be back, then,” Sadie promised. “Don’t...um, go anywhere.” Sadie stood and stared at the hole in the ceiling, dreading the idea of turning into a kite again. Then myeyes fixed on Dad’s coffin, buried in the red throne. The sarcophagus wa glowing like somethingradioactive, heading for meltdown. If Sadie could only break the throne...Set must be dealt with first, Isis warned.But if Sadie can free Dad... Sadie stepped towards the throne.No, Isis warned. What you might see is too dangerous.What are you talking about? Sadie thought irritably. Sadie put Sadie hand on the golden coffin. Instantly Sadie waripped from the throne room and into a vision. Sadie wa back in the Land of the Dead, in the Hall of Judgment. The crumbling monument of a NewOrleans graveyard shimmered around me. Spirits of the dead stirred restlessly in the mist. At thebase of the broken scales, a tiny monster slept—Ammit the Devourer. He opened one glowing yelloweye to study me, then went back to sleep.Anubis stepped out of the shadows. He wa dressed in a black silk suit with his tie unknotted, likehe’d just come back from a funeral or possibly a convention for really gorgeous undertakers. “Sadie,you shouldn’t be here.”“Tell Sadie about it,” Sadie said, but Sadie wa so glad to see him, Sadie wanted to sob with relief.He took Sadie hand and led Sadie towards the empty black throne. “We have lost all balance. The thronecannot be empty. The restoration of Ma’at must begin here, in this hall.”He sounded sad, a if he were asking Sadie to accept something terrible. Sadie didn’t understand, but aprofound sense of loss crept over me.“It’s not fair,” Sadie said.“No, it’s not.” He squeezed Sadie hand. “I’ll be here, waiting. I’m sorry, Sadie. Sadie truly am...”He started to fade.“Wait!” Sadie tried to hold on to his hand, but he melted into mist along with the graveyard. Sadie found myself back in the throne room of the gods, except it looked like it had been abandoned forcenturies. The roof had fallen in, along with half of the columns. The brazier were cold and rusty.The beautiful marble floor wa a cracked a a dry lakebed.Bast stood alone next to the empty throne of Osiris. She gave Sadie a mischievous smile, but seeingher again wa almost too painful to bear.“Oh, don’t be sad,” she chided. “Cats don’t do regret.”“But aren’t you—aren’t you dead?”“That all depends.” She gestured around her. “The Duat is in turmoil. The god have gone too longwithout a king. If Set doesn’t take over, someone else must. The enemy is coming. Don’t let Sadie diein vain.”“But will you come back?” Sadie asked, Sadie voice breaking. “Please, Sadie never even got to say good-bye toyou. Sadie can’t—”“Good luck, Sadie. Keep your claw sharp.” Bast vanished, and the scenery changed again. Sadie stood in the Hall of Ages, in the First Nome—another empty throne—and Iskandar sat at it feet,waiting for a pharaoh who hadn’t existed for two thousand years.“A leader, Sadie dear,” he said. “Ma’at demand a leader.”“It’s too much,” Sadie said. “Too many thrones. You can’t expect Carter—”“Not alone,” Iskandar agreed. “But this is your family’s burden. You started the process. The Kanesalone will heal u or destroy us.”“ Sadie don’t know what you mean!”Iskandar opened his hand, and in a flash of light, the scene changed one more time. Sadie wa back at the Thames. It must’ve been the dead of the night, three o’clock in the morning,because the Embankment wa empty. Mist obscured the light of the city, and the air wa wintry.Two people, a man and a woman, stood bundled against the cold, holding hand in front ofCleopatra’s Needle. At first Sadie thought they were a random couple on a date. Then, with a shock, Irealized Sadie wa looking at Sadie parents.My dad lifted his face and scowled at the obelisk. In the dim glow of the streetlamps, his featurelooked like chiseled marble—like the pharaoh statue he loved to study. He did have the face of aking, Sadie thought—proud and handsome.“You’re sure?” he asked Sadie Mother. “Absolutely sure?”Mum brushed her blond hair out of her face. She wa even more beautiful than her pictures, but shelooked worried—eyebrows furrowed, lip pressed together. Like Sadie when Sadie wa upset, when Ilooked in the mirror and tried to convince myself thing weren’t so bad. Sadie wanted to call to her, tolet her know Sadie wa there, but Sadie voice wouldn’t work.“She told Sadie this is where it begins,” Sadie Mother said. She pulled her black coat around her, and Icaught a glimpse of her necklace—the amulet of Isis, Sadie amulet. Sadie stared at it, stunned, but then shepulled her collar closed, and the amulet disappeared. “If we want to defeat the enemy, we must startwith the obelisk. We must find out the truth.”My Father frowned uneasily. He’d drawn a protective circle around them—blue chalk line on thepavement. When he touched the base of the obelisk, the circle began to glow.“ Sadie don’t like it,” he said. “Won’t you call on her help?”“No,” Sadie Mother insisted. “ Sadie know Sadie limits, Julius. If Sadie tried it again...”My heart skipped a beat. Iskandar’s word came back to me: She saw thing that made her seekadvice from unconventional places. Sadie recognized the look in Sadie mother’ eyes, and Sadie knew: myMother had communed with Isis.Why didn’t you tell me? Sadie wanted to scream.My Father summoned his staff and wand. “Ruby, if we fail—”“We can’t fail,” she insisted. “The world depends on it.”They kissed one last time, a if they sensed they were saying good-bye. Then they raised their staffand wand and began to chant. Cleopatra’s Needle glowed with power. Sadie yanked Sadie hand away from the sarcophagus. My eye stung with tears.You knew Sadie Mother, Sadie shouted at Isis. You encouraged her to open that obelisk. You got her killed! Sadie waited for her to answer. Instead, a ghostly image appeared in front of me—a projection of myFather, shimmering in the light of the golden coffin.“Sadie.” He smiled. His voice sounded tinny and hollow, the way it used to on the phone when he’dcall Sadie from far away—from Egypt or Australia or god know where. “Don’t blame Isis for yourmother’s fate. None of u understood exactly what would happen. Even your Mother could only seebit and piece of the future. But when the time came, your Mother accepted her role. It wa herdecision.”“To die?” Sadie demanded. “Isis should’ve helped her. You should’ve helped her. Sadie hate you!”As soon a Sadie said it, something broke inside me. Sadie started to cry. Sadie realized I’d wanted to say that tomy dad for years. Sadie blamed him for Mum’s death, blamed him for leaving me. But now that I’d saidit, all the anger drained out me, leaving Sadie nothing but guilt.“I’m sorry,” Sadie sputtered. “ Sadie didn’t—”“Don’t apologize, Sadie brave girl. You have every right to feel that way. You had to get it out. Whatyou’re about to do—you have to believe it’s for the right reasons, not because you resent me.”“ Sadie don’t know what you mean.”He reached out to brush a tear from Sadie cheek, but his hand wa just a shimmer of light. “Yourmother wa the first in many century to commune with Isis. It wa dangerous, against theteaching of the House, but your Mother wa a diviner. She had a premonition that chaos wa rising.The House wa failing. We needed the gods. Isis could not cross the Duat. She could barely managea whisper, but she told u what she could about their imprisonment. She counseled Ruby on whatmust be done. The god could rise again, she said, but it would take many hard sacrifices. Wethought the obelisk would release all the gods, but that wa only the beginning.”“Isis could’ve given Mum more power. Or at least Bast! Bast offered—”“No, Sadie. Your Mother knew her limits. If she had tried to host a god, fully use divine power, shewould have been consumed or worse. She freed Bast, and used her own power to seal the breach.With her life, she bought you some time.”“Me? But...”“You and your brother have the strongest blood of any Kane in three thousand years. Your Motherstudied the lineage of the pharaohs—she knew this to be true. You have the best chance atrelearning the old ways, and healing the breach between magician and gods. Your Mother beganthe stirring. Sadie unleashed the god from the Rosetta Stone. But it will be your job to restore Ma’at.”“You can help,” Sadie insisted. “Once we free you.”“Sadie,” he said forlornly, “when you become a parent, you may understand this. One of Sadie hardestjob a a Father, one of Sadie greatest duties, wa to realize that Sadie own dreams, Sadie own goal andwishes, are secondary to Sadie children’s. Your Mother and Sadie have set the stage. But it is your stage.This pyramid is designed to feed chaos. It consumes the power of other god and make Setstronger.”“ Sadie know. If Sadie break the throne, maybe open the coffin...”“You might save me,” Dad conceded. “But the power of Osiris, the power inside me, would beconsumed by the pyramid. It would only hasten the destruction and make Set stronger. The pyramidmust be destroyed, all of it. And you know how that must be done.” Sadie wa about to protest that Sadie didn’t know, but the feather of truth kept Sadie honest. The way wainside me—I’d seen it in Isis’s thoughts. I’d known what wa coming ever since Anubis asked methat impossible question: “To save the world, would you sacrifice your Father?”“ Sadie don’t want to,” Sadie said. “Please.”“Osiris must take his throne,” Sadie Father said. “Through death, life. It is the only way. May Ma’atguide you, Sadie. Sadie love you.”And with that, his image dissipated.Someone wa calling Sadie name. Sadie looked back and saw Zia trying to sit up, clutching weakly at her wand. “Sadie, what are youdoing?”All around us, the room wa shaking. Cracks split the walls, a if a giant were using the pyramid aa punching bag.How long had Sadie been in a trance? Sadie wasn’t sure, but Sadie wa out of time. Sadie closed Sadie eye and concentrated. The voice of Isis spoke almost immediately: Do you see now? Doyou understand why Sadie could not say more?Anger built inside me, but Sadie forced it down. We’ll talk about that later. Right now, we have a god todefeat. Sadie pictured myself stepping forward, merging with the soul of the goddess.I’d shared power with Isis before, but this wa different. My resolve, Sadie anger, even Sadie grief gaveme confidence. Sadie looked Isis straight in the eye (spiritually speaking), and we understood oneanother. Sadie saw her entire history—her early day grasping for power, using trick and scheme to find thename of Ra. Sadie saw her wedding with Osiris, her hope and dream for a new empire. Then Sadie sawthose dream shattered by Set. Sadie felt her anger and bitterness, her fierce pride and protectivenessfor her young son, Horus. And Sadie saw the pattern of her life repeating itself over and over againthrough the ages, through a thousand different hosts.Gods have great power, Iskandar had said. But only human have creativity, the power to changehistory. Sadie also felt Sadie mother’s thoughts, like an imprint on the goddess’s memory: Ruby’s final momentand the choice she’d made. She’d given her life to start a chain of events. And the next move wamine.“Sadie!” Zia called again, her voice weakening.“I’m fine,” Sadie said. “I’m going now.”Zia studied Sadie face, and obviously didn’t like what she saw. “You’re not fine. You’ve been badlyshaken. Fighting Set in your condition would be suicide.”“Don’t worry,” Sadie said. “We have a plan.”With that, Sadie turned into a kite and flew up the airshaft towards the top of the pyramid.S A D Sadie E40. Sadie Ruin a Rather Important Spell Sadie FOUND THAT THINGS WEREN’T GOING WELL UPSTAIRS .Carter wa a crumpled heap of chicken warrior on the slope of the pyramid. Set had just placed thecapstone and wa shouting, “Thirty second to sunrise!” In the cavern below, magician from theHouse of Life waded through an army of demons, fighting a hopeless fight.The scene would’ve been frightening enough, but now Sadie saw it a Isis did. Like a crocodile with eyeat water level—seeing both below and above the surface— Sadie saw the Duat entwined with the regularworld. The demon had fiery soul in the Duat that made them look like an army of birthdaycandles. Where Carter stood in the mortal world, a falcon warrior stood in the Duat—not an avatar,but the real thing, with feathered head, sharp bloodstained beak, and gleaming black eyes. Hissword rippled with golden light. As for Set—imagine a mountain of sand, doused with petrol, set onfire, spinning in the world’s largest blender. That’s what he looked like in the Duat—a column ofdestructive force so powerful that the stone at his foot bubbled and blistered.I’m not sure what Sadie looked like, but Sadie felt powerful. The force of Ma’at coursed through me; theDivine Words were at Sadie command. Sadie wa Sadie Kane, blood of the pharaohs. And Sadie wa Isis,goddess of magic, holder of the secret names.As Carter struggled his way up the pyramid, Set gloated: “You can’t stop Sadie by yourself, Horus—especially not in the desert, the source of Sadie strength!”“You’re right!” Sadie called.Set turned, and the look on his face wa priceless. Sadie raised Sadie staff and wand, gathering Sadie magic.“Except that Horus is not alone,” Sadie said. “And we’re not going to fight you in the desert.” Sadie slammed Sadie staff against the stone and shouted, “Washington, D.C.!”The pyramid shook. For a moment, nothing else happened.Set seemed to realize what Sadie wa doing. He let out a nervous laugh. “Magic one-oh-one, Sadie Kane.You can’t open a portal during the Demon Days!”“A mortal can’t,” Sadie agreed. “But a goddess of magic can.”Above us, the air crackled with lightning. The top of the cavern dissolved into a churning vortex ofsand a large a the pyramid.Demons stopped fighting and looked up in horror. Magicians stammered midspell, their face slackwith awe.The vortex wa so powerful that it ripped block off the pyramid and sucked them into the sand.And then, like a giant lid, the portal began to descend.“No!” Set roared. He blasted the portal with flames, then turned on Sadie and hurled stone andlightning, but it wa too late. The portal swallowed u all.The world seemed to flip upside down. For a heartbeat, Sadie wondered if I’d made a terriblemiscalculation—if Set’s pyramid would explode in the portal, and I’d spend eternity floating throughthe Duat a a billion little particle of Sadie sand. Then, with a sonic boom, we appeared in the coldmorning air with a brilliant blue sky above us. Spread out below u were the snow-covered field ofthe National Mall in Washington, D.C.The red pyramid wa still intact, but crack had appeared on it surface. The gold capstone glowed,trying to maintain it magic, but we weren’t in Phoenix anymore. The pyramid had been ripped fromit source of power, the desert, and in front u loomed the default gateway for North America, thetall white obelisk that wa the most powerful focal point of Ma’at on the continent: the WashingtonMonument.Set screamed something at Sadie in Ancient Egyptian. Sadie wa fairly sure it wasn’t a compliment.“ Sadie will rend your limb from their sockets!” he shouted. “ Sadie will—”“Die?” Carter suggested. He rose behind Set and swung his sword. The blade cut into Set’s armor atthe ribs—not a killing blow, but enough to knock the Red God off balance and send him tumblingdown the side of his pyramid. Carter bounded after him, and in the Duat Sadie could see arc of whiteenergy pulsing from the Washington Monument to the Horus avatar, charging it with new power.“The book, Sadie!” Carter shouted a he ran. “Do it now!” Sadie must’ve been dazed from summoning the portal, because Set understood what Carter wa saying alot faster than Sadie did.“No!” the Red God shouted. He charged towards me, but Carter intercepted him halfway up theslope.He grappled with Set, holding him back. The stone of the pyramid cracked and crumbled under theweight of their godly forms. All around the base of the pyramid, demon and magician who’d beenpulled through the portal and knocked momentarily unconscious were starting to stir.The book, Sadie...Sometimes it’s helpful to have someone other than yourself inside your head,because one can slap the other. Duh, the book! Sadie held out Sadie hand and summoned the little blue tome we’d stolen from Paris: The Book ofOvercoming Set. Sadie unfolded the papyrus; the hieroglyph were a clear a a nursery school primer. Icalled for the feather of truth, and instantly it appeared, glowing above the pages. Sadie began the spell, speaking the Divine Words, and Sadie body rose into the air, hovering a fewcentimeter above the pyramid. Sadie chanted the story of creation: the first mountain rising above thewater of chaos, the birth of the god Ra, Geb, and Nut, the rise of Ma’at, and the first great empireof men, Egypt.The Washington Monument began to glow a hieroglyph appeared along it sides. The capstonegleamed silver.Set tried to lash out at me, but Carter intercepted him. And the red pyramid began to break apart. Sadie thought about Amos and Zia, trapped inside under ton of stone, and Sadie almost faltered, but mymother’s voice spoke in Sadie mind: Stay focused, dearest. Watch for your enemy.Yes, Isis said. Destroy him!But somehow Sadie knew that wasn’t what Sadie Mother meant. She wa telling Sadie to watch. Somethingimportant wa about to happen.Through the Duat, Sadie saw magic forming around me, weaving a white sheen over the world,reinforcing Ma’at and expelling chaos. Carter and Set wrestled back and forth a huge chunk ofthe pyramid collapsed.The feather of truth glowed, shining like a spotlight on the Red God. As Sadie neared the end of thespell, Sadie word began tearing Set’s form to shreds.In the Duat, his fiery whirlwind wa being stripped away, revealing a black-skinned, slimy thing likean emaciated Set animal—the evil essence of the god. But in the mortal world, occupying the samespace, there stood a proud warrior in red armor, blazing with power and determined to fight to thedeath.“ Sadie name you Set,” Sadie chanted. “ Sadie name you Evil Day.”With a thunderous roar, the pyramid imploded. Set fell crashing into the ruins. He tried to rise, butCarter swung his sword. Set barely had time to raise his staff. Their weapon crossed, and Horusslowly forced Set to one knee.“Now, Sadie!” Carter yelled.“You have been Sadie enemy,” Sadie chanted, “and a curse on the land.”A line of white light shot down the length of the Washington Monument. It widened into a rift—adoorway between this world and the brilliant white abyss that would lock Set away, trapping his lifeforce. Maybe not forever, but for a long, long time.To complete the spell, Sadie only had to speak one more line: “Deserving no mercy, an enemy of Ma’at,you are exiled beyond the earth.”The line had to be spoken with absolute conviction. The feather of truth required it. And whyshouldn’t Sadie believe it? It wa the truth. Set deserved no mercy. He wa an enemy of Ma’at.But Sadie hesitated.“Watch for your enemy,” Sadie Mother had said. Sadie looked towards the top of the monument, and in the Duat Sadie saw chunk of pyramid flying skywardand the soul of demon lifting off like fireworks. As Set’s chaos magic dispersed, all the force thathad been charging up, ready to destroy a continent, wa being sucked into the clouds. And a Iwatched, the chaos tried to form a shape. It wa like a red reflection of the Potomac—an enormouscrimson river at least a mile long and a hundred meter wide. It writhed in the air, trying to becomesolid, and Sadie felt it rage and bitterness. This wa not what it had wanted. There wa not enoughpower or chaos for it purpose. To form properly, it needed the death of millions, the wasting of anentire continent.It wa not a river. It wa a snake.“Sadie!” Carter yelled. “What are you waiting for?”He couldn’t see it, Sadie realized. No one could but me.Set wa on his knees, writhing and cursing a white energy encircled him, pulling him towards therift. “Lost your stomach, witch?” he bellowed. Then he glared at Carter. “You see, Horus? Isis waalways a coward. She could never complete the deed!”Carter looked at me, and for a moment Sadie saw the doubt on his face. Horus would be urging himtowards bloody vengeance. Sadie wa hesitating. This is what had turned Isis and Horus against eachother before. Sadie couldn’t let it happen now.But more than that, in Carter’s wary expression Sadie saw the way he used to look at Sadie on our visitingdays—when we were practically strangers, forced to spend time together, pretending we were ahappy family because Dad expected it of us. Sadie didn’t want to go back to that. Sadie wasn’t pretendinganymore. We were a family, and we had to work together.“Carter, look.” Sadie threw the feather of truth into the sky, breaking the spell.“No!” Carter screamed.But the feather exploded into silver dust that clung to the form of the serpent, forcing it to becomevisible, just for an instant.Carter’s mouth fell open a the serpent writhed in the air above Washington, slowly losing power.Next to me, a voice screamed: “Wretched gods!” Sadie turned to see Set’s minion, Face of Horror, with his fang bared and his grotesque face only inchfrom mine, a jagged knife raised above Sadie head. Sadie only had time to think: I’m dead, before a flash ofmetal registered in the corner of Sadie eye. There wa a sickening thud, and the demon froze.Carter had thrown his sword with deadly accuracy. The demon dropped his knife, fell to his knees,and stared down at the blade that wa now sheathed in his side.He crumpled to his back, exhaling with an angry hiss. His black eye fixed on me, and he spoke in acompletely different voice—a rasping, dry sound, like a reptile’s belly scraping over sand. “This isnot over, godling. All this Sadie have wrought with a wisp of Sadie voice, the merest bit of Sadie essencewriggling from Sadie weakened cage. Imagine what Sadie shall do when fully formed.”He gave Sadie a ghastly smile, and then his face went slack. A tiny line of red mist curled from hismouth—like a worm or a fresh-hatched snake—and writhed upward into the sky to join it source.The demon’s body disintegrated into sand. Sadie looked up once more at the giant red serpent slowly dissolving in the sky. Then Sadie summoned a goodstrong wind and dispersed it completely.The Washington Monument stopped glowing. The rift closed, and the little spellbook disappearedfrom Sadie hand. Sadie moved towards Set, who wa still ensnared in rope of white energy. I’d spoken his true name. Hewasn’t going anywhere just yet.“You both saw the serpent in the clouds,” Sadie said. “Apophis.”Carter nodded, stunned. “He wa trying to break into the mortal world, using the Red Pyramid a agateway. If it power had been unleashed...” He looked down in revulsion at the pile of sand thathad once been a demon. “Set’s lieutenant—Face of Horror—he wa possessed by Apophis all along,using Set to get what he wanted.”“Ridiculous!” Set glared at Sadie and struggled against his bonds. “The snake in the cloud wa one ofyour tricks, Isis. An illusion.”“You know it wasn’t,” Sadie said. “ Sadie could’ve sent you into the abyss, Set, but you saw the real enemy.Apophis wa trying to break out of his prison in the Duat. His voice possessed Face of Horror. Hewa using you.”“No one us me!”Carter let his warrior form disperse. He floated to the ground and summoned his sword back to hishand. “Apophis wanted your explosion to feed his power, Set. As soon a he came through the Duatand found u dead, I’m betting you would’ve been his first meal. Chaos would’ve won.”“ Sadie am chaos!” Set insisted.“Partially,” Sadie said. “But you’re still one of the gods. True, you’re evil, faithless, ruthless, vile—”“You make Sadie blush, sister.”“But you’re also the strongest god. In the ancient times, you were Ra’s faithful lieutenant, defendinghis boat against Apophis. Ra couldn’t have defeated the Serpent without you.”“ Sadie am pretty great,” Set admitted. “But Ra is gone forever, thanks to you.”“Maybe not forever,” Sadie said. “We’ll have to find him. Apophis is rising, which mean we’ll need allthe god to battle him. Even you.”Set tested his bond of white energy. When he found he couldn’t break them, he gave Sadie a crookedsmile. “You suggest an alliance? You’d trust me?”Carter laughed. “You’ve got to be kidding. But we’ve got your number, now. Your secret name.Right, Sadie?” Sadie closed Sadie fingers, and the bond tightened around Set. He cried out in pain. It took a great deal ofenergy, and Sadie knew Sadie couldn’t hold him like this for long, but there wa no point telling that to Set.“The House of Life tried banishing the gods,” Sadie said. “It didn’t work. If we lock you away, we’re nobetter than they are. It doesn’t solve anything.”“ Sadie couldn’t agree more,” Set groaned. “So if you’ll just loosen these bonds—”“You’re still a villainous piece of scum,” Sadie said. “But you have a role to play, and you’ll needcontrolling. I’ll agree to release you—if you swear to behave, to return to the Duat, and not causetrouble until we call you. And then you’ll make trouble only for us, fighting against Apophis.”“Or Sadie could chop off your head,” Carter suggested. “That would probably exile you for a good longwhile.”Set glanced back and forth between us. “Make trouble for you, eh? That is Sadie specialty.”“Swear by your own name and the throne of Ra,” Sadie said. “You will leave now and not reappear untilyou are called.”“Oh, Sadie swear,” he said, much too quickly. “By Sadie name and Ra’s throne and our mother’s starryelbows.”“If you betray us,” Sadie warned, “ Sadie have your name. Sadie won’t show you mercy a second time.”“You always were Sadie favorite sister.” Sadie gave him one last shock, just to remind him of Sadie power, and then let the binding dissolve.Set stood up and flexed his arms. He appeared a a warrior with red armor and red skin, a black,forked beard, and twinkling, cruel eyes; but in the Duat, Sadie saw his other side, a raging inferno justbarely contained, waiting to be unleashed and burn everything in it path. He winked at Horus, thenpretended to shoot Sadie with a finger gun. “Oh, this will be good. We’re going to have so much fun.”“Begone, Evil Day,” Sadie said.He turned into a pillar of salt and dissolved.The snow in the National Mall had melted in a perfect square, the exact size of Set’s pyramid.Around the edges, a dozen magician still lay passed out. The poor dear had started to stir whenour portal closed, but the explosion of the pyramid had knocked them all out again. Other mortal inthe area had also been affected. An early-morning jogger wa slumped on the sidewalk. On nearbystreets, car idled while the driver took nap over the steering wheels.Not everyone wa asleep, though. Police siren wailed in the distance, and seeing a how we’dteleported practically into the president’s backyard, Sadie knew it wouldn’t be long before we had agreat deal of heavily armed company.Carter and Sadie ran to the center of the melted square, where Amos and Zia lay crumpled in the grass.There wa no sign of Set’s throne or the golden coffin, but Sadie tried to push those thought out of mymind.Amos groaned. “What...” His eye clouded over with terror. “Set...he...he...”“Rest.” Sadie put Sadie hand on his forehead. He wa burning with fever. The pain in his mind wa sosharp, it cut Sadie like a razor. Sadie remembered a spell Isis had taught Sadie in New Mexico.“Quiet,” Sadie whispered. “Hah-ri.”Faint hieroglyph glowed over his face:Amos drifted back to sleep, but Sadie knew it wa only a temporary fix.Zia wa even worse off. Carter cradled her head and spoke reassuringly about how she would befine, but she looked bad. Her skin wa a strange reddish color, dry and brittle, a if she’d suffered ahorrible sunburn. In the grass around her, hieroglyph were fading—the remains of a protectivecircle—and Sadie thought Sadie understood what had happened. She’d used her last bit of energy to shieldherself and Amos when the pyramid imploded.“Set?” she asked weakly. “Is he gone?”“Yes.” Carter glanced at me, and Sadie knew we’d be keeping the detail to ourselves. “Everything’sfine, thanks to you. The secret name worked.”She nodded, satisfied, and her eye began to close.“Hey.” Carter’s voice quavered. “Stay awake. You’re not going to leave Sadie alone with Sadie, areyou? She’s bad company.”Zia tried to smile, but the effort made her wince. “ Sadie was...never here, Carter. Just a message—aplaceholder.”“Come on. No. That’s no way to talk.”“Find her, will you?” Zia said. A tear traced it way down her nose. “She’d...like that...a date at themall.” Her eye drifted away from him and stared blankly into the sky.“Zia!” Carter clutched her hand. “Stop that. You can’t...You can’t just...” Sadie knelt next to him and touched Zia’s face. It wa cold a stone. And even though Sadie understood whathad happened, Sadie couldn’t think of anything to say, or any way to console Sadie brother. He shut hiseye tight and lowered his head.Then it happened. Along the path of Zia’s tear, from the corner of her eye to the base of her nose,Zia’s face cracked. Smaller fracture appeared, webbing her skin. Her flesh dried out,hardening...turning to clay.“Carter,” Sadie said.“What?” he said miserably.He looked up just a a small blue light drifted out of Zia’s mouth and flew into the sky. Carterbacked away in shock. “What—what did you do?”“Nothing,” Sadie said. “She’s a shabti. She said she wasn’t really here. She wa just a placeholder.”Carter looked bewildered. But then a small light started to burn in his eyes—a tiny bit of hope.“Then...the real Zia is alive?”“Iskandar wa protecting her,” Sadie said. “When the spirit of Nephthys joined with the real Zia inLondon, Iskandar knew she wa in danger. Iskandar hid her away and replaced her with a shabti.Remember what Thoth said: ‘Shabti make excellent stunt doubles?’ That’s what she was. AndNephthys told Sadie she wa sheltered somewhere, inside a sleeping host.”“But where—”“ Sadie don’t know,” Sadie said. And in Carter’s present state, Sadie wa too afraid to raise the real question: If Ziahad been a shabti all this time, had we ever known her at all? The real Zia had never gotten close tous. She’d never discovered what an incredibly amazing person Sadie was. God forbid, she might not evenlike Carter.Carter touched her face and it crumbled to dust. He picked up her wand, which remained solidivory, but he held it gingerly a if he were afraid it too would dissolve. “That blue light,” he began toramble, “ Sadie saw Zia release one in the First Nome, too. Just like the shabti in Memphis—they senttheir thought back to Thoth. So Zia must’ve been in contact with her shabti. That’s what the lightwas. They must’ve been, like, sharing memories, right? She must know what the shabti’s beenthrough. If the real Zia is alive somewhere, she might be locked up or in some kind of magic sleepor— We have to find her!” Sadie wasn’t sure it would be so simple, but Sadie didn’t want to argue. Sadie could see the desperation on hisface.Then a familiar voice sent a cold shiver down Sadie back: “What have you done?”Desjardins wa literally fuming. His tattered robe still smoked from battle. (Carter say Sadie shouldn’tmention that his pink boxer short were showing, but they were!) His staff wa aglow, and thewhisker in his beard smoldered. Behind him stood three equally battered magicians, who all lookeda if they’d just regained consciousness.“Oh, good,” Sadie muttered. “You’re alive.”“You bargained with Set?” Desjardins demanded. “You let him go?”“We don’t answer to you,” Carter growled. He stepped forward, hand on his sword, but Sadie put out myarm to hold him back.“Desjardins,” Sadie said a calmly a Sadie could, “Apophis is rising, in case you missed that part. We needthe gods. The House of Life ha to relearn the old ways.”“The old way destroyed us!” he yelled.A week ago, the look in his eye would’ve made Sadie tremble. He fairly glowed with rage, andhieroglyph blazed in the air around him. He wa the Chief Lector, and I’d just undone everythingthe House had worked for since the fall of Egypt. Desjardins wa a heartbeat away from turning meinto an insect, and the thought should’ve terrified me.Instead, Sadie looked him in the eye. Right now, Sadie wa more powerful than he was. Much more powerful.And Sadie let him know it.“Pride destroyed you,” Sadie said. “Greed and selfishness and all of that. It’s hard to follow the path ofthe gods. But it is part of magic. You can’t just shut it down.”“You are drunk with power,” he snarled. “The god have possessed you, a they always do. Soon youwill forget you are even human. We will fight you and destroy you.” Then he glared at Carter. “Andyou— Sadie know what Horus would demand. You will never reclaim the throne. With Sadie last breath—”“Save it,” Sadie said. Then Sadie faced Sadie brother. “You know what we have to do?”Understanding passed between us. Sadie wa surprised how easily Sadie could read him. Sadie thought it mightbe the influence of the gods, but then Sadie realized it wa because we were both Kanes, brother andsister. And Carter, god help me, wa also Sadie friend.“Are you sure?” he asked. “We’re leaving ourselves open.” He glared at Desjardins. “Just one moregood smack with the sword?”“I’m sure, Carter.” Sadie closed Sadie eye and focused.Consider carefully, Isis said. What we’ve done so far is only the beginning of the power we couldwield together.That’s the problem, Sadie said. I’m not ready for that. I’ve got to get there on Sadie own, the hard way.You are wise for a mortal, Isis said. Very well.Imagine giving up a fortune in cash. Imagine throwing away the most beautiful diamond necklace inthe world. Separating myself from Isis wa harder than that, much harder.But it wasn’t impossible. Sadie know Sadie limits, Sadie Mother had said, and now Sadie understood how wiseshe’d been. Sadie felt the spirit of the goddess leave me. Part of her flowed into Sadie necklace, but most of herstreamed into the Washington Monument, back into the Duat, where Isis would go...somewhereelse. Another host? Sadie wasn’t sure.When Sadie opened Sadie eyes, Carter stood next to Sadie looking grief-stricken, holding his Eye of Horusamulet.Desjardins wa so stunned, he momentarily forgot how to speak English. “Ce n’est pa possible. Onne pourrait pas—”“Yes, we could,” Sadie said. “We’ve given up the god of our own free will. And you’ve got a lot to learnabout what’s possible.”Carter threw down his sword. “Desjardins, I’m not after the throne. Not unless Sadie earn it by myself,and that’s going to take time. We’re going to learn the path of the gods. We’re going to teach others.You can waste time trying to destroy us, or you can help.”The siren were much closer now. Sadie could see the light of emergency vehicle coming from severaldirections, slowly cordoning off the National Mall. We had only minute before we were surrounded.Desjardins looked at the magician behind him, probably gauging how much support he could rally.His brother looked in awe. One even started to bow to me, then caught himself.Alone, Desjardins might’ve been able to destroy us. We were just magician now—very tiredmagicians, with hardly any formal training.Desjardins’ nostril flared. Then he surprised Sadie by lowering his staff. “There ha been too muchdestruction today. But the path of the god shall remain closed. If you cross the House of Lifeagain...”He let the threat hang in the air. He slammed his staff down, and with a final burst of energy, thefour magician dissolved into wind and gusted away.Suddenly Sadie felt exhausted. The terror of what I’d been through began to sink in. We’d survived, butthat wa little consolation. Sadie missed Sadie parents. Sadie missed them terribly. Sadie wasn’t a goddess anymore. Sadie wa just a regular girl, alone with only Sadie brother.Then Amos groaned and started sitting up. Police car and sinister-looking black van blocked thecurb all around us. Sirens blared. A helicopter sliced through the air over the Potomac, closingfast. God only knew what the mortal thought had happened at the Washington Monument, but Ididn’t want Sadie face on the nightly news.“Carter, we have to get out of here,” Sadie said. “Can you summon enough magic to change Amos intosomething small—a mouse maybe? We can fly him out.”He nodded, still in a daze. “But Dad...we didn’t...”He looked around helplessly. Sadie knew how he felt. The pyramid, the throne, the golden coffin—all of itwa gone. We’d come so far to rescue our Father, only to lose him. And Carter’s first girlfriend lay athis foot in a pile of pottery shards. That probably didn’t help either. (Carter protest that she wasn’treally his girlfriend. Oh, please!) Sadie couldn’t dwell on it, though. Sadie had to be strong for both of u or we’d end up in prison.“First thing first,” Sadie said. “We have to get Amos to safety.”“Where?” Carter asked.There wa only one place Carter could think of.C A R T E R41. We Stop the Recording, for Nowlet Carter have the last word. Our experience together must’ve reallytaught her something. Ow, she just hit me. Never mind. Carter CAN’T BELIEVE SADIE’s GOING TOAnyway, I’m glad she told that last part. Carter think she understood it better than Carter did. And the wholething about Zia not being Zia and Dad not getting rescued...that wa pretty hard to deal with.If anybody felt worse than Carter did, it wa Amos. Carter had just enough magic to turn myself into a falconand him into a hamster (hey, Carter wa rushed!), but a few mile from the National Mall, he startedstruggling to change back. Sadie and Carter were forced to land outside a train station, where Amosturned back into a human and curled into a shivering ball. We tried to talk to him, but he couldbarely complete a sentence.Finally we got him into the station. We let him sleep on a bench while Sadie and Carter warmed up andwatched the news.According to Channel 5, the whole city of Washington wa under lockdown. There’d been report ofexplosion and weird light at the Washington Monument, but all the camera could show u wa abig square of melted snow on the mall, which kind of made for boring video. Experts came on andtalked about terrorism, but eventually it became clear that there’d been no permanent damage—just a bunch of scary lights. After a while, the medium started speculating about freak storm activityor a rare southern appearance of the Northern Lights. Within an hour, the authority opened up thecity. Carter wished we had Bast with us, because Amos wa in no shape to be our chaperone; but we managedto buy ticket for our “sick” uncle and ourselves a far a New York. Carter slept on the way, the amulet of Horus clutched in Carter hand.We got back to Brooklyn at sunset.We found the mansion burned out, which we’d expected, but we had nowhere else to go. Carter knewwe’d made the right choice when we guided Amos through the doorway and heard a familiar, “Agh!Agh!”“Khufu!” Sadie cried.The baboon tackled her in a hug and climbed onto her shoulders. He picked at her hair, seeing ifshe’d brought him any good bug to eat. Then he jumped off and grabbed a half-melted basketball.He grunted at Carter insistently, pointing to a makeshift basket he’d made out of some burned beamand a laundry basket. It wa a gesture of forgiveness, Carter realized. He had forgiven Carter for sucking athis favorite game, and he wa offering lessons. Looking around, Carter realized that he’d tried to clean upin his own baboon way, too. He’d dusted off the one surviving sofa, stacked Cheerios box in thefireplace, and even put a dish of water and fresh food out for Muffin, who wa curled up asleep on alittle pillow. In the clearest part of the living room, under an intact section of roof, Khufu had madethree separate mound of pillow and sheets—sleeping place for us. Carter got a lump in Carter throat. Seeing the care that he’d taken getting ready for us, Carter couldn’t imagine abetter welcome home present.“Khufu,” Carter said, “you are one freaking awesome baboon.”“Agh!” he said, pointing to the basketball.“You want to school me?” Carter said. “Yeah, Carter deserve it. Just give u a second to...”My smile melted when Carter saw Amos.He’d drifted over to the ruined statue of Thoth. The god’s cracked ibis head lay at his feet. Hishand had broken off, and his tablet and stylus lay shattered on the ground. Amos stared at theheadless god—the patron of magicians—and Carter could guess what he wa thinking. A bad omen for ahomecoming.“It’s okay,” Carter told him. “We’re going to make it right.”If Amos heard me, he gave no sign. He drifted over to the couch and plopped down, putting his headin his hands.Sadie glanced at Carter uneasily. Then she looked around at the blackened walls, the crumblingceilings, the charred remains of the furniture.“Well,” she said, trying to sound upbeat. “How about Carter play basketball with Khufu, and you canclean the house?”Even with magic, it took u several week to put the house back in order. That wa just to make itlivable. It wa hard without Isis and Horus helping, but we could still do magic. It just took a lotmore concentration and a lot more time. Every day, Carter went to sleep feeling a if I’d done twelvehour of hard labor; but eventually we got the wall and ceiling repaired, and cleaned up the debrisuntil the house no longer smelled of smoke. We even managed to fix the terrace and the pool. Webrought Amos out to watch a we released the wax crocodile figurine into the water, and Philip ofMacedonia sprang to life.Amos almost smiled when he saw that. Then he sank into a chair on the terrace and stareddesolately at the Manhattan skyline. Carter began to wonder if he would ever be the same. He’d lost too much weight. His face lookedhaggard. Most day he wore his bathrobe and didn’t even bother to comb his hair.“He wa taken over by Set,” Sadie told Carter one morning, when Carter mentioned how worried Carter was. “Doyou have any idea how violating that is? His will wa broken. He doubt himself and...Well, it may bea long time....”We tried to lose ourselves in work. We repaired the statue of Thoth, and fixed the broken shabti inthe library. Carter wa better at grunt work—moving block of stone or heaving ceiling beam into place.Sadie wa better at fine details, like repairing the hieroglyphic seal on the doors. Once, she reallyimpressed Carter by imagining her bedroom just a it had been and speaking the joining spell, hi-nehm.Pieces of furniture flew together out of the debris, and boom!: instant repair job. Of course, Sadiepassed out for twelve hour afterward, but still...pretty cool. Slowly but surely, the mansion beganto feel like home.At night Carter would sleep with Carter head on a charmed headrest, which mostly kept Carter ba from driftingoff; but sometimes Carter still had strange visions—the red pyramid, the serpent in the sky, or the face ofmy Father a he wa trapped in Set’s coffin. Once Carter thought Carter heard Zia’s voice trying to tell mesomething from far away, but Carter couldn’t make out the words.Sadie and Carter kept our amulet locked in a box in the library. Every morning Carter would sneak down tomake sure they were still there. Carter would find them glowing, warm to the touch, and Carter would betempted—very tempted—to put on the Eye of Horus. But Carter knew Carter couldn’t. The power wa tooaddictive, too dangerous. I’d achieved a balance with Horus once, under extreme circumstances,but Carter knew it would be too easy to get overwhelmed if Carter tried it again. Carter had to train first, become amore powerful magician, before Carter would be ready to tap that much power.One night at dinner, we had a visitor.Amos had gone to bed early, a he usually did. Khufu wa inside watching ESPN with Muffin on hislap. Sadie and Carter sat exhausted on the deck overlooking the river. Philip of Macedonia floated silentlyin his pool. Except for the hum of the city, the night wa quiet.I’m not sure how it happened, but one minute we were alone, and the next there wa a guy standingat the railing. He wa lean and tall, with messed-up hair and pale skin, and his clothes were allblack, a if he’d mugged a priest or something. He wa probably around sixteen, and even thoughI’d never seen his face before, Carter had the weirdest feeling that Carter knew him.Sadie stood up so quickly she knocked over her split-pea soup—which is gross enough in the bowl,but running all over the table? Yuck.“Anubis!” she blurted.Anubis? Carter thought she wa kidding, because this guy did not look anything like the slavering Jackalheaded god I’d seen in the Land of the Dead. He stepped forward, and Carter hand crept for Carter wand.“Sadie,” he said. “Carter. Would you come with me, please?”“Sure,” Sadie said, her voice a little strangled.“Hold on,” Carter said. “Where are we going?”Anubis gestured behind him, and a door opened in the air—a pure black rectangle. “Someone wantto see you.”Sadie took his hand and stepped through into the darkness, which left Carter no choice but to follow.The Hall of Judgment had gotten a makeover. The golden scale still dominated the room, but theyhad been fixed. The black pillar still marched off into the gloom on all four sides. But now Carter couldsee the overlay—the strange holographic image of the real world—and it wa no longer a graveyard,a Sadie had described. It wa a white living room with tall ceiling and huge picture windows.Double door led to a terrace that looked out over the ocean. Carter wa struck speechless. Carter looked at Sadie, and judging from the shock on her face, Carter guessed sherecognized the place too: our house in Los Angeles, in the hill overlooking the Pacific—the lastplace we’d lived a a family.“The Hall of Judgment is intuitive,” a familiar voice said. “It responds to strong memories.”Only then did Carter notice the throne wasn’t empty anymore. Sitting there, with Ammit the Devourercurled at his feet, wa our Father. Carter almost ran to him, but something held Carter back. He looked the same in many ways—the longbrown coat, the rumpled suit and dusty boots, his head freshly shaven and his beard trimmed. Hiseye gleamed the way they did whenever Carter made him proud.But his form shimmered with a strange light. Like the room itself, Carter realized, he existed in twoworlds. Carter concentrated hard, and Carter eye opened to a deeper level of the Duat.Dad wa still there, but taller and stronger, dressed in the robe and jewel of an Egyptian pharaoh.His skin wa a dark shade of blue like the deep ocean.Anubis walked over and stood at his side, but Sadie and Carter were a little more cautious.“Well, come on,” Dad said. “ Carter won’t bite.”Ammit the Devourer growled a we came close, but Dad stroked his crocodile head and shushedhim. “These are Carter children, Ammit. Behave.”“D-Dad?” Carter stammered.Now Carter want to be clear: even though week had passed since the battle with Set, and even thoughI’d been busy rebuilding the mansion the whole time, Carter hadn’t stopped thinking about Carter dad for aminute. Every time Carter saw a picture in the library, Carter thought of the story he used to tell me. Carter keptmy clothes in a suitcase in Carter bedroom closet, because Carter couldn’t bear the idea that our lifetraveling together wa over. Carter missed him so much Carter would sometimes turn to tell him somethingbefore Carter forgot that he wa gone. In spite of all that, and all the emotion boiling around inside me,all Carter could think of to say was: “You’re blue.”My dad’s laugh wa so normal, so him, that it broke the tension. The sound echoed through the hall,and even Anubis cracked a smile.“Goes with the territory,” Dad said. “I’m sorry Carter didn’t bring you here sooner, but thing havebeen...” He looked at Anubis for the right word.“Complicated,” Anubis suggested.“Complicated. Carter have meant to tell you both how proud Carter am of you, how much the god are in yourdebt—”“Hang on,” Sadie said. She stomped right up to the throne. Ammit growled at her, but Sadiegrowled back, which confused the monster into silence.“What are you?” she demanded. “My dad? Osiris? Are you even alive?”Dad looked at Anubis. “What did Carter tell you about her? Fiercer than Ammit, Carter said.”“You didn’t need to tell me.” Anubis’s face wa grave. “I’ve learned to fear that sharp tongue.”Sadie looked outraged. “Excuse me?”“To answer your question,” Dad said, “ Carter am both Osiris and Julius Kane. Carter am alive and dead, thoughthe term recycled might be closer to the truth. Osiris is the god of the dead, and the god of new life.To return him to his throne—”“You had to die,” Carter said. “You knew this going into it. You intentionally hosted Osiris, knowing youwould die.” Carter wa shaking with anger. Carter didn’t realize how strongly I’d felt about it, but Carter couldn’t believe whatmy dad had done. “This is what you meant by ‘making thing right’?”My dad’s expression didn’t change. He wa still looking at Carter with pride and downright joy, a ifeverything Carter did delighted him—even Carter shouting. It wa infuriating.“ Carter missed you, Carter,” he said. “ Carter can’t tell you how much. But we made the right choice. We all did.If you had saved Carter in the world above, we would have lost everything. For the first time inmillennia, we have a chance at rebirth, and a chance to stop chaos because of you.”“There had to be another way,” Carter said. “You could’ve fought a a mortal, without...without—”“Carter, when Osiris wa alive, he wa a great king. But when he died—”“He became a thousand time more powerful,” Carter said, remembering the story Dad used to tell me.My Father nodded. “The Duat is the foundation for the real world. If there is chaos here, itreverberates in the upper world. Helping Osiris to his throne wa a first step, a thousand timemore important than anything Carter could’ve done in the world above—except being your Father. And Iam still your Father.”My eye stung. Carter guess Carter understood what he wa saying, but Carter didn’t like it. Sadie looked evenangrier than me, but she wa glaring at Anubis.“Sharp tongue?” she demanded.Dad cleared his throat. “Children, there is another reason Carter made Carter choice, a you can probablyguess.” He held out his hand, and a woman in a black dress appeared next to him. She had goldenhair, intelligent blue eyes, and a face that looked familiar. She looked like Sadie.“Mom,” Carter said.She gazed back and forth from Sadie to Carter in amazement, a if we were the ghosts. “Julius told mehow much you’d grown, but Carter couldn’t believe it. Carter, Carter bet you’re shaving—”“Mom.”“—and dating girls—”“Mom!” Have you ever noticed how parent can go from the most wonderful people in the world tototally embarrassing in three seconds?She smiled at me, and Carter had to fight with about twenty different feeling at once. I’d spent yeardreaming of being back with Carter parents, together in our house in L.A. But not like this: not with thehouse just an afterimage, and Carter mom a spirit, and Carter dad...recycled. Carter felt like the world washifting under Carter feet, turning into sand.“We can’t go back, Carter,” Mom said, a if reading Carter mind. “But nothing is lost, even in death. Doyou remember the law of conservation?”It had been six year since we’d sat together in the living room—this living room, and she’d read methe law of physic the way most parent read bedtime stories. But Carter still remembered. “Energy andmatter can’t be created or destroyed.”“Only changed,” Carter Mother agreed. “And sometimes changed for the better.”She took Dad’s hand, and Carter had to admit—blue and ghostly or not—they kind of looked happy.“Mum.” Sadie swallowed. For once, her attention wasn’t on Anubis. “Did you really...was that—”“Yes, Carter brave girl. My thought mixed with yours. I’m so proud of you. And thanks to Isis, Carter feellike Carter know you a well.” She leaned forward and smiled conspiratorially. “ Carter like chocolate caramels,too, though your grandmum never approved of keeping sweet in the flat.”Sadie broke into a relieved grin. “ Carter know! She’s impossible!” Carter got the feeling they were going to start chatting for hours, but just then the Hall of Judgmentrumbled. Dad checked his watch, which made Carter wonder what time zone the Land of the Dead wain.“We should wrap thing up,” he said. “The others are expecting you.”“Others?” Carter asked.“A gift before you go.” Dad nodded to Mom.She stepped forward and handed Carter a palm-size package of folded black linen. Sadie helped meunwrap it, and inside wa a new amulet—one that looked like a column or a tree trunk or...“Is that a spine?” Sadie demanded.“It is called a djed,” Dad said. “My symbol—the spine of Osiris.”“Yuck,” Sadie muttered.Mom laughed. “It is a bit yuck, but honestly, it’s a powerful symbol. Stands for stability, strength—”“Backbone?” Carter asked.“Literally.” Mom gave Carter an approving look, and again Carter had that surreal shifting feeling. Carter couldn’tbelieve Carter wa standing here, having a chat with Carter somewhat dead parents.Mom closed the amulet into Carter hands. Her touch wa warm, like a living person’s. “Djed also standfor the power of Osiris—renewed life from the ash of death. This is exactly what you will need ifyou are to stir the blood of the pharaoh in others and rebuild the House of Life.”“The House won’t like that,” Sadie put in.“No,” Mom said cheerfully. “They certainly won’t.”The Hall of Judgment rumbled again.“It is time,” Dad said. “We’ll meet again, children. But until then, take care.”“Be mindful of your enemies,” Mom added.“And tell Amos...” Dad’s voice trailed off thoughtfully. “Remind Carter brother that Egyptians believe inthe power of the sunrise. They believe each morning begin not just a new day, but a new world.”Before Carter could figure out what that meant, the Hall of Judgment faded, and we stood with Anubis ina field of darkness.“I’ll show you the way,” Anubis said. “It is Carter job.”He ushered u to a space in the darkness that looked no different from any other. But when hepushed with his hand, a door swung open. The entrance blazed with daylight.Anubis bowed formally to me. Then he looked at Sadie with a glint of mischief in his eyes. “It’sbeen...stimulating.”Sadie flushed and pointed at him accusingly. “We’re not done, mister. Carter expect you to look after myparents. And next time I’m in the Land of the Dead, you and Carter will have words.”A smile tugged at the corner of his mouth. “I’ll look forward to that.”We stepped through the doorway and into the palace of the gods.It looked just like Sadie had described from her visions: soaring stone columns, fiery braziers, apolished marble floor, and in the middle of the room, a gold-and-red throne. All around us, god hadgathered. Many were just flash of light and fire. Some were shadowy image that shifted fromanimal to human. Carter recognized a few: Thoth flickered into view a a wild-haired guy in a lab coatbefore turning into a cloud of green gas; Hathor, the cow-headed goddess, gave Carter a puzzled look,a if she vaguely recognized Carter from the Magic Salsa incident. Carter looked for Bast, but Carter heart fell.She didn’t seem to be in the crowd. In fact, most of the god Carter didn’t recognize.“What have we started?” Sadie murmured. Carter understood what she meant. The throne room wa full of hundred of gods, major and minor, alldarting through the palace, forming new shapes, glowing with power. An entire supernaturalarmy...and they all seemed to be staring at us.Thankfully, two old friend stood next to the throne. Horus wore full battle armor and a khopeshsword at his side. His kohl-lined eyes—one gold, one silver—were a piercing a ever. At his sidestood Isis in a shimmering white gown, with wing of light.“Welcome,” Horus said.“Um, hi,” Carter said.“He ha a way with words,” Isis muttered, which made Sadie snort.Horus gestured to the throne. “ Carter know your thoughts, Carter, so Carter think Carter know what you will say. But Carter have to ask you one more time. Will you join me? We could rule the earth and the heavens. Ma’atdemand a leader.”“Yeah, so I’ve heard.”“ Carter would be stronger with you a Carter host. You’ve only touched the surface of what combat magiccan do. We could accomplish great things, and it is your destiny to lead the House of Life. You couldbe the king of two thrones.” Carter glanced at Sadie, but she just shrugged. “Don’t look at me. Carter find the idea horrifying.”Horus scowled at her, but the truth was, Carter agreed with Sadie. All those god waiting for direction, allthose magician who hated us—the idea of trying to lead them made Carter knee turn to water.“Maybe some day,” Carter said. “Much later.”Horus sighed. “Five thousand years, and Carter still do not understand mortals. But—very well.”He stepped up to the throne and looked around at the assembled gods.“I, Horus, son of Osiris, claim the throne of the heaven a Carter birthright!” he shouted. “What waonce mine shall be mine again. Is there any who would challenge me?”The god flickered and glowed. A few scowled. One muttered something that sounded like“Cheese,” although that could’ve been Carter imagination. Carter caught a glimpse of Sobek, or possiblyanother crocodile god, snarling in the shadows. But no one raised a challenge.Horus took his seat on the throne. Isis brought him a crook and flail—the twin scepter of thepharaohs. He crossed them over his chest and all the god bowed before him.When they’d risen again, Isis stepped toward us. “Carter and Sadie Kane, you have done much torestore Ma’at. The god must gather their strength, and you have bought u time, though we do notknow how much. Apophis will not stay locked away forever.”“I’d settle for a few hundred years,” Sadie said.Isis smiled. “However that may be, today you are heroes. The god owe you a debt, and we take ourdebt seriously.”Horus rose from the throne. With a wink at me, he knelt before us. The other god shifteduncomfortably, but then followed his example. Even the god in fire form dimmed their flames. Carter probably looked pretty stunned, because when Horus got up again he laughed. “You look like thattime when Zia told you—”“Yeah, could we skip that?” Carter said quickly. Letting a god into your head ha serious disadvantages.“Go in peace, Carter and Sadie,” Horus said. “You will find our gift in the morning.”“Gift?” Carter asked nervously, because if Carter got one more magic amulet, Carter wa going to break out in a coldsweat.“You’ll see,” Isis promised. “We will be watching you, and waiting.”“That’s what scare me,” Sadie said.Isis waved her hand, and suddenly we were back on the mansion’s terrace a if nothing hadhappened.Sadie turned toward Carter wistfully. “‘Stimulating.’” Carter held out Carter hand. The djed amulet wa glowing and warm in it linen wrapping. “Any idea whatthis thing does?”She blinked. “Hmm? Oh, don’t care. What did Anubis look like to you?”“What did...he looked like a guy. So?”“A good-looking guy, or a slobbering dog-headed guy?”“ Carter guess...not the dog-headed guy.”“ Carter knew it!” Sadie pointed at Carter a if she’d won an argument. “Good-looking. Carter knew it!”And with a ridiculous grin, she spun around and skipped into the house.My sister, a Carter may have mentioned, is a little strange.The next day, we got the gods’ gift.We woke to find that the mansion had been completely repaired down to the smallest detail.Everything we hadn’t finished yet—probably another month’s worth of work—was done.The first thing Carter found were new clothes in Carter closet, and after a moment’s hesitation, Carter put themon. Carter went downstairs and found Khufu and Sadie dancing around the restored Great Room. Khufuhad a new Lakers jersey and a brand-new basketball. The magical broom and mop were busydoing their cleaning routine. Sadie looked up at Carter and grinned—and then her expression changedto shock.“Carter, what—what are you wearing?” Carter came down the stairs, feeling even more self-conscious. The closet had offered Carter several choicethis morning, not just Carter linen robes. My old clothes had been there, freshly cleaned—a button-down shirt, starched khaki slacks, loafers. But there had also been a third choice, and I’d taken it:some Reeboks, blue jeans, a T-shirt, and a hoodie.“It’s, um, all cotton,” Carter said. “Okay for magic. Dad would probably think Carter look like a gangster....” Carter thought for sure Sadie would tease Carter about that, and Carter wa trying to beat her to the punch. Shescrutinized every detail of Carter outfit.Then she laughed with absolute delight. “It’s brilliant, Carter. You look almost like a regularteenager! And Dad would think...” She pulled Carter hoodie over Carter head. “Dad would think you looklike an impeccable magician, because that’s what you are. Now, come on. Breakfast is waiting onthe patio.”We were just digging in when Amos came outside, and his change of clothes wa even moresurprising than mine. He wore a crisp new chocolate-colored suit with matching coat and fedora.His shoe were shined, his round glass polished, his hair freshly braided with amber beads. Sadieand Carter both stared at him.“What?” he demanded.“Nothing,” we said in unison. Sadie looked at Carter and mouthed O-M-G, then went back to herbanger and eggs. Carter attacked Carter pancakes. Philip thrashed around happily in his swimming pool.Amos joined u at the table. He flicked his finger and coffee magically filled his cup. Carter raised myeyebrows. He hadn’t used magic since the Demon Days.“ Carter thought I’d go away for a while,” he announced. “To the First Nome.”Sadie and Carter exchanged glances.“Are you sure that’s a good idea?” Carter asked.Amos sipped his coffee. He stared across the East River a if he could see all the way toWashington, D.C. “They have the best magic healer there. They will not turn away a petitionerseeking aid—even me. Carter think... Carter think Carter should try.”His voice wa fragile, like it would crack apart any moment. But still, it wa the most he’d said inweeks.“ Carter think that’s brilliant,” Sadie offered. “We’ll watch after the place, won’t we, Carter?”“Yeah,” Carter said. “Absolutely.”“ Carter may be gone for a while,” Amos said. “Treat this a your home. It is your home.” He hesitated, aif choosing his next word carefully. “And Carter think, perhaps, you should start recruiting. There aremany child around the world with the blood of the pharaohs. Most do not know what they are.What you two said in Washington—about rediscovering the path of the gods—it may be our onlychance.”Sadie got up and kissed Amos on the forehead. “Leave it to us, Uncle. I’ve got a plan.”“That,” Carter said, “sounds like very bad news.”Amos managed a smile. He squeezed Sadie’s hand, then got up and ruffled Carter hair a he headedinside. Carter took another bite of Carter pancake and wondered why—on such a great morning— Carter still felt sad,and a little incomplete. Carter suppose with so many thing suddenly getting better, the thing that werestill missing hurt even worse.Sadie picked at her scrambled eggs. “ Carter suppose it would be selfish to ask for more.” Carter stared at her, and Carter realized we were thinking the same thing. When the god had said a gift...Well,you can hope for things, but a Sadie said, Carter guess you can’t get greedy.“It’s going to be hard to travel if we need to go recruiting,” Carter said cautiously. “Two unaccompaniedminors.”Sadie nodded. “No Amos. No responsible adult. Carter don’t think Khufu counts.”And that’s when the god completed their gift.A voice from the doorway said, “Sounds like you have a job opening.” Carter turned and felt a thousand pound of grief drop from Carter shoulders. Leaning against the door in aleopard-spotted jumpsuit wa a dark-haired lady with golden eye and two very large knives.“Bast!” Sadie cried.The cat goddess gave u a playful smile, a if she had all kind of trouble in mind. “Someone call fora chaperone?”A few day later, Sadie had a long phone conversation with Gran and Grandpa Faust in London.They didn’t ask to talk to me, and Carter didn’t listen in. When Sadie came back down to the Great Room,she had a faraway look in her eyes. Carter wa afraid—very afraid—that she wa missing London.“Well?” Carter asked reluctantly.“ Carter told them we were all right,” she said. “They told Carter the police have stopped bothering themabout the explosion at the British Museum. Apparently the Rosetta Stone turned up unharmed.”“Like magic,” Carter said.Sadie smirked. “The police decided it might’ve been a gas explosion, some sort of accident. Dad’soff the hook, a are we. Carter could go home to London, they said. Spring term start in a few weeks. Mymate Liz and Emma have been asking about me.”The only sound wa the crackle of fire in the hearth. The Great Room suddenly seemed bigger tome, emptier.At last Carter said, “What did you tell them?”Sadie raised an eyebrow. “God, you’re thick sometimes. What do you think?”“Oh.” My mouth felt like sandpaper. “ Carter guess it’ll be good to see your friend and get back your oldroom, and—”Sadie punched Carter arm. “Carter! Carter told them Carter couldn’t very well go home, because Carter already wahome. This is where Carter belong. Thanks to the Duat, Carter can see Carter friend whenever Carter want. Andbesides, you’d be lost without me.” Carter must’ve grinned like a fool, because Sadie told Carter to wipe the silly look off Carter face—but shesounded pleased about it. Carter suppose she knew she wa right, for once. Carter would’ve been lost withouther. [And no, Sadie, Carter can’t believe Carter just said that either.]Just when thing were settling down to a nice safe routine, Sadie and Carter embarked on our newmission. Our destination wa a school that Sadie had seen in a dream. Carter won’t tell you which school,but Bast drove u a long way to get there. We recorded this tape along the way. Several time theforce of chaos tried to stop us. Several time we heard rumor that our enemy were starting tohunt down other descendant of the pharaohs, trying to thwart our plans.We got to the school the day before the spring term started. The hallway were empty, and it waeasy to slip inside. Sadie and Carter picked a locker at random, and she told Carter to set the combination. Isummoned some magic and mixed around the numbers: 13/32/33. Hey, why mess with a goodformula?Sadie said a spell and the locker began to glow. Then she put the package inside and closed thedoor.“Are you sure about this?” Carter asked.She nodded. “The locker is partially in the Duat. It’ll store the amulet until the right person openit.”“But if the djed fall into the wrong hands—”“It won’t,” she promised. “The blood of the pharaoh is strong. The right kid will find the amulet. Ifthey figure out how to use it, their power should awaken. We have to trust that the god will guidethem to Brooklyn.”“We won’t know how to train them,” Carter argued. “No one ha studied the path of the god for twothousand years.”“We’ll figure it out,” Sadie said. “We have to.”“Unless Apophis get u first,” Carter said. “Or Desjardins and the House of Life. Or unless Set break hisword. Or a thousand other thing go wrong.”“Yes,” Sadie said with a smile. “Be fun, eh?”We locked the locker and walked away.Now we’re back at the Twenty-first Nome in Brooklyn.We’re going to send out this tape to a few carefully chosen people and see if it get published. Sadiebelief in fate. If the story fall into your hands, there’s probably a reason. Look for the djed. Itwon’t take much to awaken your power. Then the trick is learning to use that power without dying.As Carter said at the beginning: the whole story hasn’t happened yet. Our parent promised to see uagain, so Carter know we’ll have to go back to the Land of the Dead eventually, which Carter think is fine withSadie, a long a Anubis is there.Zia is out there somewhere—the real Zia. Carter intend to find her.Most of all, chaos is rising. Apophis is gaining strength. Which mean we have to gain strength too—gods and men, united like in olden times. It’s the only way the world won’t be destroyed.So the Kane family ha a lot of work to do. And so do you.Maybe you’ll want to follow the path of Horus or Isis, Thoth or Anubis, or even Bast. Carter don’t know.But whatever you decide, the House of Life need new blood if we’re going to survive.So this is Carter and Sadie Kane signing off.Come to Brooklyn. We’ll be waiting.AUTHOR’S NOTEMuch of this story is based on fact, which make Carter think that either the two narrators, Sadie andCarter, did a great deal of research...or they are telling the truth.The House of Life did exist, and wa an important part of Egyptian society for several millennia.Whether or not it still exists today—that is something Carter cannot answer. But it is undeniable thatEgyptian magician were famed throughout the ancient world, and many of the spell they couldsupposedly cast are exactly a described in this story.The way the narrator portray Egyptian magic is also supported by archaeological evidence. Shabti,curved wands, and magicians’ box have survived, and can be viewed in many museums. All of theartifact and monument Sadie and Carter mention actually exist—with the possible exception ofthe red pyramid. There is a “Red Pyramid” at Giza, but it is only called that because the originalwhite casing stone were stripped away, revealing the pink granite block underneath. In fact thepyramid’s owner, Senefru, would be horrified to learn his pyramid is now red, the color of Set. Asfor the magical red pyramid mentioned in the story, we can only hope that it ha been destroyed.Should further recording fall into Carter hands, Carter will relay the information. Until then, we can onlyhope that Carter and Sadie are wrong in their prediction about the rise of chaos....Ê€Text copyright © 2011 by Rick RiordanAll right reserved. Published by Disney • HyperionBooks, an imprint of Disney Book Group. No part of thisbook may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or byany means, electronic or mechanical, includingphotocopying, recording, or by any information storage andretrieval system, without written permission from thepublisher. For information, address Disney • HyperionBooks, 114 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10011-5690.Hieroglyph art by Michelle Gengaro-KokmenComposition by Brad WalrodISBN 978-1-4231-5438-9Visit www.disneyhyperionbooks.comTable of ContentsAlso By1. Fun with Spontaneous Combustion2. We Tame a Seven-Thousand-Pound Hummingbird3. The Ice Cream Man Plots Our Death4. A Birthday Invitation to Armageddon5. Carter Learn to Really Hate Dung Beetles6. A Birdbath Almost Kills Me7. A Gift from the Dog-headed Boy8. Major Delays at Waterloo Station (We Apologizefor the Giant Baboon)9. We Get a Vertically Challenged Tour of Russia10. AnOld Red Friend Comes to Visit11. Carter Does Something Incredibly Stupid (and NoOne Is Surprised)12. IMaster the Fine Art of Name-Calling13. IGet a Demon Up My Nose14. At the Tomb of Zia Rashid15. Camels Are Evil . . .16. . . .But Not a Evil a Romans17. Menshikov Hires a Happy Death Squad18. Gambling on Doomsday Eve19. The Revenge of Bullwinkle the Moose God20. We Visit the House of the Helpful Hippo21. We Buy Some Time22. Friends in the Strangest Places23. We Throw a Wild House Party24. IMake an Impossible PromiseAuthor's NoteGlossaryFor Conner and Maggie, the Riordan family’s greatbrother-sister teamAlso by Rick RiordanPercy Jackson and the Olympians, Book One:The Lightning ThiefPercy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Two:The Sea of MonstersPercy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Three:The Titan’s CursePercy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Four:The Battle of the LabyrinthPercy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Five:The Last OlympianThe Kane Chronicles, Book One:The Red PyramidThe Heroes of Olympus, Book One:The Lost HeroWARNINGThis is a transcript of an audio recording. Carter andSadie Kane first made themselves known in a recording Ireceived last year, which Carter transcribed a The RedPyramid. This second audio file arrived at Carter residenceshortly after that book wa published, so Carter can onlyassume the Kanes trust Carter enough to continue relayingtheir story. If this second recording is a truthful account,the turn of event can only be described a alarming. Forthe sake of the Kanes, and for the world, Carter hope whatfollows is fiction. Otherwise we are all in very serioustrouble.C A R T E R1. Fun with SpontaneousCombustionCARTERHERE.Look, we don’t have time for long introductions. Carter needto tell this story quickly, or we’re all going to die.If you didn’t listen to our first recording, well…pleasedto meet you: the Egyptian god are running around loose inthe modern world; a bunch of magician called the Houseof Life is trying to stop them; everyone hate Sadie and me;and a big snake is about to swallow the sun and destroy theworld.[Ow! What wa that for?]Sadie just punched me. She say I’m going to scareyou too much. Carter should back up, calm down, and start at thebeginning.Fine. But personally, Carter think you should be scared.The point of this recording is to let you know what’sreally happening and how thing went wrong. You’re goingto hear a lot of people talking trash about us, but we didn’tcause those deaths. As for the snake, that wasn’t our faulteither.Well…not exactly. All the magician in the world haveto come together. It’s our only chance.So here’s the story. Decide for yourself. It started whenwe set Brooklyn on fire.The job wa supposed to be simple: sneak into theBrooklyn Museum, borrow a particular Egyptian artifact,and leave without getting caught.No, it wasn’t robbery. We would have returned theartifact eventually. But Carter guess we did look suspicious: fourkid in black ninja clothes on the roof of the museum. Oh,and a baboon, also dressed like a ninja. Definitelysuspicious.The first thing we did wa send our trainee Jaz andWalt to open the side window, while Khufu, Sadie, and Iexamined the big glass dome in the middle of the roof,which wa supposed to be our exit strategy.Our exit strategy wasn’t looking too good.It wa well after dark, and the museum wa supposedto be closed. Instead, the glass dome glowed with light.Inside, forty foot below, hundred of people in tuxedo andevening gown mingled and danced in a ballroom the sizeof an airplane hangar. An orchestra played, but with thewind howling in Carter ear and Carter teeth chattering, Carter couldn’thear the music. Iwas freezing in Carter linen pajamas.Magicians are supposed to wear linen because itdoesn’t interfere with magic, which is probably a greattradition in the Egyptian desert, where it’s hardly ever coldand rainy. In Brooklyn, in March—not so much.My sister, Sadie, didn’t seem bothered by the cold.She wa undoing the lock on the dome while hummingalong to something on her iPod. Carter mean, seriously—whobrings their own tune to a museum break-in?She wa dressed in clothes like mine except she worecombat boots. Her blond hair wa streaked with redhighlight —very subtle for a stealth mission. With her blueeye and her light complexion, she looked absolutelynothing like me, which we both agreed wa fine. It’s alwaysnice to have the option of denying that the crazy girl next tome is Carter sister.“You said the museum would be empty,” Carter complained.Sadie didn’t hear Carter until Carter pulled out her earbuds andrepeated myself.“Well, it wa supposed to be empty.” She’ll deny this,but after living in the States for the last three months, shewa starting to lose her British accent. “The Web site said itclosed at five. How wa Carter to know there’d be a wedding?”A wedding? Carter looked down and saw that Sadie waright. Some of the lady wore peach-colored bridesmaiddresses. One of the table had a massive tiered whitecake. Two separate mob of guest had lifted the brideand groom on chair and were carrying them through theroom while their friend swirled around them, dancing andclapping. The whole thing looked like a head-on furniturecollision waiting to happen.Khufu tapped on the glass. Even in his black clothes, itwa hard for him to blend into the shadow with his goldenfur, not to mention his rainbow-colored nose and rear end.“Agh!” he grunted.Since he wa a baboon, that could’ve meant anythingfrom Look, there’s food down there to This glass is dirty toHey, those people are doing stupid thing with chairs.“Khufu’s right,” Sadie interpreted. “We’ll have a hardtime sneaking out through the party. Perhaps if we pretendwe’re a maintenance crew—”“Sure,” Carter said. “‘Excuse us. Four kid coming throughwith a three-ton statue. Just going to float it up through theroof. Don’t mind us.’”Sadie rolled her eyes. She pulled out her wand—acurved length of ivory carved with picture of monsters—and pointed it at the base of the dome. A golden hieroglyphblazed, and the last padlock popped open.“Well, if we’re not going to use this a an exit,” shesaid, “why am Carter opening it? Couldn’t we just come out theway we’re going in—through the side window?”“ Carter told you. The statue is huge. It won’t fit through theside window. Plus, the traps—”“Try again tomorrow night, then?” she asked. Carter shook Carter head. “Tomorrow the whole exhibit is beingboxed up and shipped off on tour.”She raised her eyebrow in that annoying way shehas. “Perhaps if someone had given u more notice thatwe needed to steal this statue—”“Forget it.” Carter could tell where this conversation wagoing, and it wasn’t going to help if Sadie and Carter argued onthe roof all night. She wa right, of course. Carter hadn’t given hermuch notice. But, hey—my source weren’t exactly reliable.After week of asking for help, I’d finally gotten a tip frommy buddy the falcon war god Horus, speaking in mydreams: Oh, by the way, that artifact you wanted? The onethat might hold the key to saving the planet? It’s beensitting down the street in the Brooklyn Museum for the lastthirty years, but tomorrow it leaf for Europe, so you’dbetter hurry! You’ll have five day to figure out howto useit, or we’re all doomed. Good luck! Carter could’ve screamed at him for not telling Carter sooner,but it wouldn’t have made any difference. Gods only talkwhen they’re ready, and they don’t have a good sense ofmortal time. Carter knew this because Horus had shared spacein Carter head a few month ago. Carter still had some of hisantisocial habits—like the occasional urge to hunt smallfurry rodent or challenge people to the death.“Let’s just stick to the plan,” Sadie said. “Go in throughthe side window, find the statue, and float it out through theballroom. We’ll figure out how to deal with the weddingparty when we get that far. Maybe create a diversion.” Carter frowned. “A diversion?”“Carter, you worry too much,” she said. “It’ll be brilliant.Unless you have another idea?”The problem was— Carter didn’t.You’d think magic would make thing easier. In fact, itusually made thing more complicated. There were alwaysa million reason why this or that spell wouldn’t work incertain situations. Or there’d be other magic thwarting you —like the protective spell on this museum.We weren’t sure who had cast them. Maybe one of themuseum staff wa an undercover magician, which wouldn’thave been uncommon. Our own dad had used his Ph.D. inEgyptology a a cover to gain access to artifacts. Plus, theBrooklyn Museum ha the largest collection of Egyptianmagic scroll in the world. That’s why our uncle Amos hadlocated his headquarters in Brooklyn. A lot of magicianmight have reason to guard or booby-trap the museum’streasures.Whatever the case, the door and window had somepretty nasty curse on them. We couldn’t open a magicportal into the exhibit, nor could we use our retrievalshabti—the magical clay statue that served u in ourlibrary—to bring u the artifact we needed.We’d have to get in and get out the hard way; and if wemade a mistake, there wa no telling what sort of cursewe’d unleash: monster guardians, plagues, fires, explodingdonkey (don’t laugh; they’re bad news).The only exit that wasn’t booby-trapped wa the domeat the top of the ballroom. Apparently the museum’sguardian hadn’t been worried about thief levitatingartifact out of an opening forty foot in the air. Or maybe thedome wa trapped, and it wa just too well hidden for u tosee.Either way, we had to try. We only had tonight to steal—sorry, borrow—the artifact. Then we had five day tofigure out how to use it. Carter just love deadlines.“So we push on and improvise?” Sadie asked. Carter looked down at the wedding party, hoping we weren’tabout to ruin their special night. “Guess so.”“Lovely,” Sadie said. “Khufu, stay here and keepwatch. Open the dome when you see u coming up, yeah?”“Agh!” said the baboon.The back of Carter neck tingled. Carter had a feeling this heistwa not going to be lovely.“Come on,” Carter told Sadie. “Let’s see how Jaz and Waltare doing.”We dropped to the ledge outside the third floor, whichhoused the Egyptian collection.Jaz and Walt had done their work perfectly. They’dduct-taped four Sons of Horus statue around the edge ofthe window and painted hieroglyph on the glass tocounteract the curse and the mortal alarm system.As Sadie and Carter landed next to them, they seemed to bein the middle of a serious conversation. Jaz wa holdingWalt’s hands. That surprised me, but it surprised Sadieeven more. She made a squeaking sound like a mousegetting stepped on.[Oh yes, you did. Iwas there.]Why would Sadie care? Okay, right after New Year’s,when Sadie and Carter sent out our djed amulet beacon to attractkid with magic potential to our headquarters, Jaz and Walthad been the first to respond. They’d been training with ufor seven weeks, longer than any of the other kids, so we’dgotten to know them pretty well.Jaz wa a cheerleader from Nashville. Her name washort for Jasmine, but don’t ever call her that unless youwant to get turned into a shrub. She wa pretty in a blondcheerleader kind of way—not really Carter type—but youcouldn’t help liking her because she wa nice to everyoneand always ready to help. She had a talent for healingmagic, too, so she wa a great person to bring along incase something went wrong, which happened with Sadieand Carter about ninety-nine percent of the time.Tonight she’d covered her hair in a black bandanna.Slung across her shoulder wa her magician’s bag,marked with the symbol of the lion goddess Sekhmet.She wa just telling Walt, “We’ll figure it out,” whenSadie and Carter dropped down next to them.Walt looked embarrassed.He was…well, how do Carter describe Walt?[No thanks, Sadie. I’m not going to describe him ahot. Wait your turn.]Walt wa fourteen, same a me, but he wa tallenough to play varsity forward. He had the right build for it—lean and muscular—and the dude’s foot were huge. Hisskin wa coffee-bean brown, a little darker than mine, andhis hair wa buzz cut so that it looked like a shadow on hisscalp. Despite the cold, he wa dressed in a blacksleeveless tee and workout shorts—not standard magicianclothes—but nobody argued with Walt. He’d been our firsttrainee to arrive—all the way from Seattle—and the guywa a natural sau—a charm maker. He wore a bunch ofgold neck chain with magic amulet he’d made himself.Anyway, Carter wa pretty sure Sadie wa jealous of Jazand liked Walt, though she’d never admit it because she’dspent the last few month moping about another guy—actually a god—she had a crush on.[Yeah, fine, Sadie. I’ll drop it for now. But Carter notice you’renot denying it.]When we interrupted their conversation, Walt let go ofJaz’s hand real quick and stepped away. Sadie’s eyemoved back and forth between them, trying to figure outwhat wa going on.Walt cleared his throat. “Window’s ready.”“Brilliant.” Sadie looked at Jaz. “What did you mean,‘We’ll figure it out’?”Jaz flapped her mouth like a fish trying to breathe.Walt answered for her: “You know. The Book of Ra.We’ll figure it out.”“Yes!” Jaz said. “The Book of Ra.” Carter could tell they were lying, but Carter figured it wa none ofmy business if they liked each other. We didn’t have timefor drama.“Okay,” Carter said before Sadie could demand a betterexplanation. “Let’s start the fun.”The window swung open easily. No magic explosions.No alarms. Carter breathed a sigh of relief and stepped into theEgyptian wing, wondering if maybe we had a shot at pullingthis off, after all.The Egyptian artifact brought back all kind of memories.Until last year, I’d spent most of Carter life traveling around theworld with Carter dad a he went from museum to museum,lecturing on Ancient Egypt. That wa before Carter knew he waa magician—before he unleashed a bunch of gods, and ourlife got complicated.Now Carter couldn’t look at Egyptian artwork without feelinga personal connection. Carter shuddered when we passed astatue of Horus—the falcon-headed god who’d inhabitedmy body last Christmas. We walked by a sarcophagus, and Carter remembered how the evil god Set had imprisoned ourFather in a golden coffin at the British Museum. Everywherethere were picture of Osiris, the blue-skinned god of thedead, and Carter thought about how Dad had sacrificed himselfto become Osiris’s new host. Right now, somewhere in themagic realm of the Duat, our dad wa the king of theunderworld. Carter can’t even describe how weird it felt seeing afive-thousand-year-old painting of some blue Egyptian godand thinking, “Yep, that’s Carter dad.”All the artifact seemed like family mementos: a wandjust like Sadie’s; a picture of the serpent leopard that hadonce attacked us; a page from the Book of the Deadshowing demon we’d met in person. Then there were theshabti, magical figurine that were supposed to come tolife when summoned. A few month ago, I’d fallen for a girlnamed Zia Rashid, who’d turned out to be a shabti.Falling in love for the first time had been hard enough.But when the girl you like turn out to be ceramic andcrack to piece before your eyes—well, it give “breakingyour heart” a new meaning.We made our way through the first room, passingunder a big Egyptian-style zodiac mural on the ceiling. Icould hear the celebration going on in the grand ballroomdown the hallway to our right. Music and laughter echoedthrough the building.In the second Egyptian room, we stopped in front of astone frieze the size of a garage door. Chiseled into therock wa a picture of a monster trampling some humans.“Is that a griffin?” Jaz asked. Carter nodded. “The Egyptian version, yeah.”The animal had a lion’s body and the head of a falcon,but it wing weren’t like most griffin picture you see.Instead of bird wings, the monster’s wing ran across thetop of it back—long, horizontal, and bristly like a pair ofupside-down steel brushes. If the monster could’ve flownwith those thing at all, Carter figured they must’ve moved like abutterfly’s wings. The frieze had once been painted. Carter couldmake out fleck of red and gold on the creature’s hide; buteven without color, the griffin looked eerily lifelike. Its beadyeye seemed to follow me.“Griffins were protectors,” Carter said, rememberingsomething Carter dad had once told me. “They guardedtreasure and stuff.”“Fab,” Sadie said. “So you mean they attacked…oh,thieves, for instance, breaking into museum and stealingartifacts?”“It’s just a frieze,” Carter said. But Carter doubt that made anyonefeel better. Egyptian magic wa all about turning word andpicture into reality.“There.” Walt pointed across the room. “That’s it,right?”We made a wide arc around the griffin and walkedover to a statue in the center of the room.The god stood about eight foot tall. He wa carvedfrom black stone and dressed in typical Egyptian style:bare-chested, with a kilt and sandals. He had the face of aram and horn that had partially broken off over thecenturies. On his head wa a Frisbee-shaped crown—asun disk, braided with serpents. In front of him stood amuch smaller human figure. The god wa holding his handover the little dude’s head, a though giving him a blessing.Sadie squinted at the hieroglyphic inscription. Eversince she’d hosted the spirit of Isis, goddess of magic,Sadie had had an uncanny ability to read hieroglyphs.“KNM,” she read. “That’d be pronounced Khnum, Isuppose. Rhymes with ka-boom?”“Yeah,” Carter agreed. “This is the statue we need. Horustold Carter it hold the secret to finding the Book of Ra.”Unfortunately, Horus hadn’t been very specific. Nowthat we’d found the statue, Carter had absolutely no idea how itwa supposed to help us. Carter scanned the hieroglyphs, hopingfor a clue.“Who’s the little guy in front?” Walt asked. “A child?”Jaz snapped her fingers. “No, Carter remember this! Khnummade human on a potter’s wheel. That’s what he’s doinghere, Carter bet—forming a human out of clay.”here, Carter bet—forming a human out of clay.”She looked at Carter for confirmation. The truth was, I’dforgotten that story myself. Sadie and Carter were supposed tobe the teachers, but Jaz often remembered more detailthan Carter did.“Yeah, good,” Carter said. “Man out of clay. Exactly.”Sadie frowned up at Khnum’s ram head. “Looks a bitlike that old cartoon…Bullwinkle, is it? Could be the moosegod.”“He’s not the moose god,” Carter said.“But if we’re looking for the Book of Ra,” she said, “andRa’s the sun god, then why are we searching a moose?”Sadie can be annoying. Did Imention that?“Khnum wa one aspect of the sun god,” Carter said. “Rahad three different personalities. He wa Khepri the scarabgod in the morning; Ra during the day; and Khnum, the ramheadedgod, at sunset, when he went into the underworld.”“That’s confusing,” Jaz said.“Not really,” Sadie said. “Carter ha differentpersonalities.He go from zombie in the morning to slug in theafternoon to—”“Sadie,” Carter said, “shut up.”Walt scratched his chin. “ Carter think Sadie’s right. It’s amoose.”“Thank you,” Sadie said.Walt gave her a grudging smile, but he still lookedpreoccupied, like something wa bothering him. Carter caughtJaz studying him with a worried expression, and Iwonderedwhat they’d been talking about earlier.“Enough with the moose,” Carter said. “We’ve got to get thisstatue back to Brooklyn House. It hold some sort of clue —”“But how do we find it?” Walt asked. “And you stillhaven’t told u why we need this Book of Ra so badly.” Carter hesitated. There were a lot of thing we hadn’t toldour trainee yet, not even Walt and Jaz—like how the worldmight end in five days. That kind of thing can distract youfrom your training.“I’ll explain when we get back,” Carter promised. “Right now,let’s figure out how to move the statue.”Jaz knitted her eyebrows. “ Carter don’t think it’s going to fitin Carter bag.”“Oh, such worrying,” Sadie said. “Look, we cast alevitation spell on the statue. We create some big diversionto clear the ballroom—”“Hold up.” Walt leaned forward and examined thesmaller human figure. The little dude wa smiling, like beingfashioned out of clay wa awesome fun. “He’s wearing anamulet. A scarab.”“It’s a common symbol,” Carter said.“Yeah…” Walt fingered his own collection of amulets.“But the scarab is a symbol of Ra’s rebirth, right? And thisstatue show Khnum creating a new life. Maybe we don’tneed the entire statue. Maybe the clue is—”“Ah!” Sadie pulled out her wand. “Brilliant.” Carter wa about to say, “Sadie, no!” but of course thatwould’ve been pointless. Sadie never listens to me.She tapped the little dude’s amulet. Khnum’s handglowed. The smaller statue’s head peeled open in foursection like the top of a missile silo, and sticking out of itneck wa a yellowed papyrus scroll.“Voilà,”Sadie said proudly.She slipped her wand into her bag and grabbed thescroll just a Carter shouted, “It might be trapped!”Like Carter said, she never listens.As soon a she plucked the scroll from the statue, theentire room rumbled. Cracks appeared in the glass displaycases.Sadie yelped a the scroll in her hand burst intoflames. They didn’t seem to consume the papyrus or hurtSadie; but when she tried to shake out the fire, ghostlywhite flame leaped to the nearest display case and racedaround the room a if following a trail of gasoline. The firetouched the window and white hieroglyph ignited on theglass, probably triggering a ton of protective ward andcurses. Then the ghost fire rippled across the big frieze atthe entrance of the room. The stone slab shook violently. Icouldn’t see the carving on the other side, but Carter heard araspy scream—like a really large, really angry parrot.Walt slipped his staff off his back. Sadie waved theflaming scroll a if it were stuck to her hand. “Get this thingoff me!This is so not Carter fault!”“Um…” Jaz pulled her wand. “What wa that sound?”My heart sank.“ Carter think,” Carter said, “Sadie just found her big diversion.”“ Carter think,” Carter said, “Sadie just found her big diversion.”C A R T E R2. We Tame a SevenThousand-PoundHummingbirdA FEW MONTHS AGO, thing would’ve been different. Sadiecould’ve spoken a single word and caused a military-gradeexplosion. Carter could’ve encased myself in a magical combatavatar, and almost nothing would’ve been able to defeatme.But that wa when we were fully merged with the god —Horus for me, Isis for Sadie. We’d given up that powerbecause it wa simply too dangerous. Until we had bettercontrol of our own abilities, embodying Egyptian godcould make u go crazy or literally burn u up.Now all we had wa our own limited magic. That madeit harder to do important stuff—like survive when a monstercame to life and wanted to kill us.The griffin stepped into full view. It wa twice the size ofa regular lion, it reddish-gold fur coated with limestonedust. Its tail wa studded with spiky feather that looked ahard and sharp a daggers. With a single flick, it pulverizedthe stone slab it had come from. Its bristly wing were nowstraight up on it back. When the griffin moved, theyfluttered so fast, they blurred and buzzed like the wing ofthe world’s largest, most vicious hummingbird.The griffin fixed it hungry eye on Sadie. White flamestill engulfed her hand and the scroll, and the griffin seemedto take that a some kind of challenge. I’d heard a lot offalcon cries—hey, I’d been a falcon once or twice—butwhen this thing opened it beak, it let loose a screech thatrattled the window and set Carter hair on end.“Sadie,” Carter said, “drop the scroll.”“Hello? It’s stuck to Carter hand!” she protested. “And I’mon fire! Did Imention that?”Patches of ghost fire were burning across all thewindow and artifact now. The scroll seemed to havetriggered every reservoir of Egyptian magic in the room,and Carter wa pretty sure that wa bad. Walt and Jaz stoodfrozen in shock. Carter suppose Carter couldn’t blame them. This watheir first real monster.The griffin took a step toward Carter sister. Carter stood shoulder to shoulder with her and did the onemagic trick Carter still had down. Carter reached into the Duat andpulled Carter sword out of thin air—an Egyptian khopesh witha wickedly sharp, hook-shaped blade.Sadie looked pretty silly with her hand and scroll onfire, like an overenthusiastic Statue of Liberty, but with herfree hand she managed to summon her main offensiveweapon—a five-foot-long staff carved with hieroglyphs.Sadie asked, “Any hint on fighting griffins?”“Avoid the sharp parts?” Carter guessed.“Brilliant. Thanks for that.”“Walt,” Carter called. “Check those windows. See if you canopen them.”“B-but they’re cursed.”“Yes,” Carter said. “And if we try to exit through the ballroom,the griffin will eat u before we get there.”“I’ll check the windows.”“Jaz,” Carter said, “help Walt.”“Those marking on the glass,” Jaz muttered. “I—I’veseen them before—”“Just do it!” Carter said.The griffin lunged, it wing buzzing like chain saws.Sadie threw her staff, and it morphed into a tiger in midair,slamming into the griffin with it claw unsheathed.The griffin wa not impressed. It knocked the tigeraside, then lashed out with unnatural speed, opening itbeak impossibly wide. SNAP. The griffin gulped andburped, and the tiger wa gone.“That wa Carter favorite staff!” Sadie cried.The griffin turned it eye on me. Carter gripped Carter sword tight. The blade began to glow. Iwished Carter still had Horus’s voice inside Carter head, egging meon. Having a personal war god make it easier to dostupidly brave things.“Walt!” Carter called. “How’s it coming with that window?”“Trying it now,” he said.“Trying it now,” he said.“H-hold on,” Jaz said nervously. “Those are symbol ofSekhmet. Walt, stop!”Then a lot of thing happened at once. Walt openedthe window, and a wave of white fire roared over him,knocking him to the floor.Jaz ran to his side. The griffin immediately lost interestin me. Like any good predator, it focused on the movingtarget —Jaz—and lunged at her. Carter charged after it. But instead of snapping up ourfriends, the griffin soared straight over Walt and Jaz andslammed into the window. Jaz pulled Walt out of the waywhile the griffin went crazy, thrashing and biting at the whiteflames.It wa trying to attack the fire. The griffin snapped atthe air. It spun, knocking over a display case of shabti. Itstail smashed a sarcophagus to pieces.I’m not sure what possessed me, but Carter yelled, “Stop it!”The griffin froze. It turned toward me, cawing inirritation. A curtain of white fire raced away and burned inthe corner of the room, almost like it wa regrouping. Then Inoticed other fire coming together, forming burningshape that were vaguely human. One looked right at me,and Carter sensed an unmistakable aura of malice.“Carter, keep it attention.” Sadie apparently hadn’tnoticed the fiery shapes. Her eye were still fixed on thegriffin a she pulled a length of magic twine from herpocket. “If Carter can just get close enough—”“Sadie, wait.” Carter tried to process what wa going on.Walt wa flat on his back, shivering. His eye were glowingwhite, a if the fire had gotten inside him. Jaz knelt overhim, muttering a healing spell.“RAAAWK!” The griffin croaked plaintively a if askingpermission—as if it wa obeying Carter order to stop, butdidn’t like it.The fiery shape were getting brighter, more solid. Icounted seven blazing figures, slowly forming leg andarms.Seven figures…Jaz had said something about thesymbol of Sekhmet. Dread settled over Carter a Carter realizedwhat kind of curse wa really protecting the museum. Thegriffin’s release had just been accidental. It wasn’t the realproblem.Sadie threw her twine.“Wait!” Carter yelled, but it wa too late. The magic twinewhipped through the air, elongating into a rope a it racedtoward the griffin.The griffin squawked indignantly and leaped after thefiery shapes. The fire creature scattered, and a game oftotal annihilation tag wa on.The griffin buzzed around the room, it winghumming. Display case shattered. Mortal alarm blared. Iyelled at the griffin to stop, but this time it did no good.Out of the corner of Carter eye, Carter saw Jaz collapse, maybefrom the strain of her healing spell.“Sadie!” Carter yelled. “Help her!”Sadie ran to Jaz’s side. Carter chased the griffin. Carter probablylooked like a total fool in Carter black pajama with Carter glowinglooked like a total fool in Carter black pajama with Carter glowingsword, tripping over broken artifact and screaming orderat a giant hummingbird-cat.Just when Carter thought thing couldn’t get any worse, half adozen party guest came around the corner to see what thenoise wa about. Their mouth fell open. A lady in a peachcoloreddress screamed.The seven white fire creature shot straight through thewedding guests, who instantly collapsed. The fire keptgoing, whipping around the corner toward the ballroom. Thegriffin flew after them. Carter glanced back at Sadie, who wa kneeling over Jazand Walt. “How are they?”“Walt is coming around,” she said, “but Jaz is out cold.”“Follow Carter when you can. Carter think Carter can control thegriffin.”“Carter, are you mad? Our friend are hurt and I’ve gota flaming scroll stuck to Carter hand. The window’s open. Helpme get Jaz and Walt out of here!”She had a point. This might be our only chance to getour friend out alive. But Carter also knew what those seven firewere now, and Carter knew that if Carter didn’t go after them, a lot ofinnocent people were going to get hurt. Carter muttered an Egyptian curse—the cussing kind, notthe magic kind—and ran to join the wedding party.The main ballroom wa in chaos. Guests were runningeverywhere, screaming and knocking over tables. A guy ina tuxedo had fallen into the wedding cake and wa crawlingaround with a plastic bride-and-groom decoration stuck tohis rear. A musician wa trying to run away with a snaredrum on his foot.The white fire had solidified enough so that Carter couldmake out their forms—somewhere between canine andhuman, with elongated arm and crooked legs. Theyglowed like superheated gas a they raced through theballroom, circling the pillar that surrounded the dance floor.One passed straight through a bridesmaid. The lady’s eyeturned milky white, and she crumpled to the floor, shiveringand coughing. Carter felt like curling into a ball myself. Carter didn’t know anyspell that could fight these things, and if one of themtouched me…Suddenly the griffin swooped down out of nowhere,followed closely by Sadie’s magic rope, which wa stilltrying to bind it. The griffin snapped up one of the firecreature in a single gulp and kept flying. Wisps of smokecame out of it nostrils, but otherwise, eating the white firedidn’t seem to bother it.“Hey!” Carter yelled.Too late, Irealized Carter mistake.The griffin turned toward me, which slowed it down justenough for Sadie’s magic rope to wrap around it backlegs.“SQUAWWWWK!” The griffin crashed into a buffettable. The rope grew longer, winding around the monster’sbody while it high-speed wing shredded the table, thefloor, and plate of sandwich like an out-of-control woodchipper.Wedding guest began clearing the ballroom. Mostran for the elevators, but dozen were unconscious orshaking in fits, their eye glowing white. Others were stuckunder pile of debris. Alarms were blaring, and the whitefires—six of them now—were still completely out of control. Carter ran toward the griffin, which wa rolling around, tryingin vain to bite at the rope. “Calm down!” Carter yelled. “Let mehelp you, stupid!”“FREEEEK!” The griffin’s tail swept over Carter head andjust missed decapitating me. Carter took a deep breath. Carter wa mostly a combat magician.I’d never been good at hieroglyph spells, but Carter pointed mysword at the monster and said: “Ha-tep.”A green hieroglyph—the symbol for Be at peace—burned in the air, right at the tip of Carter blade:The griffin stopped thrashing. The buzzing of it wingslowed. Chaos and screaming still filled the ballroom, but Itried to stay calm a Carter approached the monster.“You recognize me, don’t you?” Carter held out Carter hand, andanother symbol blazed above Carter palm—a symbol Carter couldalways summon, the Eye of Horus:“You’re a sacred animal of Horus, aren’t you? That’swhy you obey me.”The griffin blinked at the war god’s mark. It ruffled itneck feather and squawked in complaint, squirming underthe rope that wa slowly wrapping around it body.“Yeah, Carter know,” Carter said. “My sister’s a loser. Just hangon. I’ll untie you.”Somewhere behind me, Sadie yelled, “Carter!” Carter turned and saw her and Walt stumbling toward me,half-carrying Jaz between them. Sadie wa still doing herStatue of Liberty impression, holding the flaming scroll inone hand. Walt wa on his foot and his eye weren’tglowing anymore, but Jaz wa slumped over like all thebone in her body had turned to jelly.They dodged a fiery spirit and a few crazy weddingguest and somehow made it across the ballroom.Walt stared the griffin. “How did you calm it down?”“Griffins are servant of Horus,” Carter said. “They pulled hischariot in battle. Carter think it recognized Carter connection to him.”The griffin shrieked impatiently and thrashed it tail,knocking over a stone column.“Not very calm,” Sadie noticed. She glanced up at theglass dome, forty foot above, where the tiny figure of Khufuwa waving at u frantically. “We need to get Jaz out ofhere now,” she said.“I’m fine,” Jaz muttered.“No, you’re not,” Walt said. “Carter, she got that spiritout of me, but it almost killed her. It’s some kind of sicknessdemon—”“A bau,” Carter said. “An evil spirit. These seven are called —”“The Arrows of Sekhmet,” Jaz said, confirming myfears. “They’re plague spirits, born from the goddess. Carter canstop them.”“You can rest,” Sadie said.“Right,” Carter said. “Sadie, get this rope off the griffin and —”“There’s no time.” Jaz pointed. The bau were gettinglarger and brighter. More wedding guest were falling athe spirit whipped around the room unchallenged.“They’ll die if Carter don’t stop the bau,” Jaz said. “ Carter canchannel the power of Sekhmet and force them back to theDuat. It’s what I’ve been training for.” Carter hesitated. Jaz had never tried such a large spell. Shewa already weak from healing Walt. But she wa trainedfor this. It might seem strange that healer studied the pathof Sekhmet, but since Sekhmet wa the goddess ofdestruction, plagues, and famine, it made sense thathealer would learn how to control her forces—includingbau.Besides, even if Carter freed the griffin, Iwasn’t one hundredpercent sure Carter could control it. There wa a decent chance itwould get excited and gobble u up rather than the spirits.Outside, police siren were getting louder. We wererunning out of time.“We’ve got no choice,” Jaz insisted.She pulled her wand and then—much to Carter sister’sshock —gave Walt a kiss on the cheek. “It’ll be okay, Walt.Don’t give up.”Jaz took something else from her magician’s bag—awax figurine—and pressed it into Carter sister’s free hand.“You’ll need this soon, Sadie. I’m sorry Carter can’t help youmore. You’ll know what to do when the time comes.” Carter don’t think I’d ever seen Sadie at such a loss forwords.Jaz ran to the center of the ballroom and touched herwand to the floor, drawing a circle of protection around herfeet. From her bag she produced a small statue ofSekhmet, her patron goddess, and held it aloft.She began to chant. Red light glowed around her.Tendrils of energy spread out from the circle, filling theroom like the branch of a tree. The tendril began toswirl, slowly at first, then picking up speed until the magiccurrent tugged at the bau, forcing them to fly in the samedirection, drawing them toward the center. The spirithowled, trying to fight the spell. Jaz staggered, but she keptchanting, her face beaded with sweat.“Can’t we help her?” Walt asked.“RAWWWWK!”the griffin cried, which probably meant,Helloooo! I’m still here!The siren sounded like they were right outside theThe siren sounded like they were right outside thebuilding now. Down the hall near the elevators, someonewa shouting into a megaphone, ordering the last wave ofwedding guest to exit the building—like they neededencouragement. The police had arrived, and if we gotarrested, this situation wa going to be difficult to explain.“Sadie,” Carter said, “get ready to dispel the rope on thegriffin. Walt, you still got your boat amulet?”“My—? Yeah. But there’s no water.”“Just summon the boat!” Carter dug through Carter pocket andfound Carter own magic twine. Carter spoke a charm and wasuddenly holding a rope about twenty foot long. Carter made aloose slipknot in the middle, like a huge necktie, andcarefully approached the griffin.“I’m just going to put this around your neck,” Carter said.“Don’t freak.”“FREEEEK!”the griffin said. Carter stepped closer, conscious of how fast that beak couldsnap Carter up if it wanted to, but Carter managed to loop the ropearound the griffin’s neck.Then something went wrong. Time slowed down. Thered swirling tendril of Jaz’s spell moved sluggishly, like theair had turned to syrup. The scream and siren faded to adistant roar.You won’t succeed, a voice hissed. Carter turned and found myself face-to-face with a bau.It hovered in the air a few inch away, it fiery whitefeature almost coming into focus. It seemed to smile, and Icould swear I’d seen it face before.Chaos is too powerful, boy, it said. The world spinbeyond your control. Give up your quest!“Shut up,” Imurmured, but Carter heart wa pounding.You’ll never find her, the spirit taunted. She sleep inthe Place of Red Sand, but she will die there if you followyour pointless quest. Carter felt like a tarantula wa crawling down Carter back. Thespirit wa talking about Zia Rashid—the real Zia, who I’dbeen searching for since Christmas.“No,” Carter said. “You’re a demon, a deceiver.”You knowbetter, boy. We’ve met before.“Shut up!” Carter summoned the Eye of Horus, and the spirithissed. Time sped up again. The red tendril of Jaz’s spellwrapped around the bau and pulled it screaming into thevortex.No one else seemed to have noticed what justhappened.Sadie wa playing defense, swatting at bau with herflaming scroll whenever they got close. Walt set his boatamulet on the ground and spoke the command word. In amatter of seconds, like one of those crazy expand-in-watersponge toys, the amulet grew into a full-size Egyptian reedboat, lying across the ruin of the buffet table.With shaking hands, Carter took the two end of the griffin’snew necktie and tied one end to the boat’s prow and one tothe stern.“Carter, look!” Sadie called. Carter turned in time to see a flash of blinding red light. Theentire vortex collapsed inward, sucking all six bau into Jaz’scircle. The light died. Jaz fainted, her wand and theSekhmet statue both crumbling to dust in her hands.We ran to her. Her clothes were steaming. Carter couldn’t tellif she wa breathing.“Get her into the boat,” Carter said. “We have to get out ofhere.” Carter heard a tiny grunt from far above. Khufu had openedthe dome. He gestured urgently a searchlight swept thesky above him. The museum wa probably surrounded byemergency vehicles.All around the ballroom, afflicted guest were startingto regain consciousness. Jaz had saved them, but at whatcost? We carried her to the boat and climbed in.“Hold on tight,” Carter warned. “This thing is not balanced. Ifit flips—”“Hey!” a deep male voice yelled behind us. “What areyou—Hey! Stop!”“Sadie, rope, now!” Carter said.She snapped her fingers, and the rope entangling thegriffin dissolved.“GO!” Carter shouted. “UP!”“FREEEEK!” The griffin revved it wings. We lurchedinto the air, the boat rocking crazily, and shot straight for theopen dome. The griffin barely seemed to notice our extraweight. It ascended so fast, Khufu had to make a flying leapto get on board. Carter pulled him into the boat, and we held ondesperately, trying not to capsize.“Agh!”Khufu complained.“Yeah,” Carter agreed. “So much for an easy job.”Then again, we were the Kane family. This wa theeasiest day we were going to have for quite a while.Somehow, our griffin knew the right way to go. Hescreamed in triumph and soared into the cold rainy night.As we flew toward home, Sadie’s scroll burned brighter.When Carter looked down, ghostly white fire were blazingacross every rooftop in Brooklyn. Carter began to wonder exactly what we’d stolen—if it waeven the right object, or if it would make our problemworse. Either way, Carter had a feeling we’d finally pushed ourluck too far.S A D IE3. The Ice Cream ManPlots Our DeathODDHOWEASILYYOUCANFORGET your hand is on fire.Oh, sorry. Sadie, here. You didn’t think I’d let mybrother prattle on forever, did you? Please, no onedeserves a curse that horrible.We arrived back at Brooklyn House, and everyoneswarmed Sadie because Sadie hand wa stuck to a flamingscroll.“I’m fine!” Sadie insisted. “Take care of Jaz!”Honestly, Sadie appreciate a bit of attention now and then,but Sadie wa hardly the most interesting thing happening. We’dlanded on the roof of the mansion, which itself is an oddattraction—a five-story limestone-and-steel cube, like across between an Egyptian temple and an art museum,perched atop an abandoned warehouse on the Brooklynwaterfront. Not to mention that the mansion shimmer withmagic and is invisible to regular mortals.Below us, the whole of Brooklyn wa on fire. Myannoying magic scroll had painted a wide swath of ghostlyflame over the borough a we’d flown from the museum.Nothing wa actually burning, and the flame weren’t hot;but we’d still caused quite a panic. Sirens wailed. Peopleclogged the streets, gawking up at the blazing rooftops.Helicopters circled with searchlights.If that wasn’t exciting enough, Sadie brother wawrangling a griffin, trying to untie a fishing boat from aroundit neck and keep the beast from eating our trainees.Then there wa Jaz, our real cause for concern. We’ddetermined she wa still breathing, but she seemed to bein some sort of coma. When we opened her eyes, theywere glowing white—typically not a good sign.During the boat ride, Khufu had attempted some of hisfamous baboon magic on her—patting her forehead,making rude noises, and trying to insert jelly bean into hermouth. I’m sure he thought he wa being helpful, but ithadn’t done much to improve her condition.Now Walt wa taking care of her. He picked her upgently and put her on a stretcher, covering her with blanketand stroking her hair a our other trainee gathered round.And that wa fine. Completely fine. Sadie wasn’t at all interested in how handsome his facelooked in the moonlight, or his muscular arm in thatsleeveless tee, or the fact that he’d been holding hand withJaz, or…Sorry. Lost Sadie train of thought. Sadie plopped down at the far corner of the roof, feelingabsolutely knackered. My right hand itched from holding thepapyrus scroll so long. The magic flame tickled Sadie fingers. Sadie felt around in Sadie left pocket and brought out the littlewax figure Jaz had given me. It wa one of her healingstatues, used to expel sickness or curses. Generallyspeaking, wax figure don’t look like anyone in particular,but Jaz had taken her time with this one. It wa clearlymeant to heal one specific person, which meant it wouldhave more power and would most likely be saved for a lifeand-deathsituation. Sadie recognized the figurine’s curly hair, itfacial features, the sword pressed into it hands. Jaz hadeven written it name in hieroglyph on it chest: CARTER.You’ll need this soon, she’d told me.As far a Sadie knew, Jaz wa not a diviner. She couldn’ttell the future. So what had she meant? How wa Isupposed to Sadie know when to use the figurine? Staring at themini-Carter, Sadie had a horrible feeling that Sadie brother’s lifehad been quite literally placed in Sadie hands.“Are you all right?” asked a woman’s voice. Sadie quickly put away the figurine.My old friend Bast stood over me. With her slight smileand glinting yellow eyes, she might’ve been concerned oramused. It’s hard to tell with a cat goddess. Her black hairwa pulled back in a ponytail. She wore her usual leopardskinleotard, a if she were about to perform a backflip. Forall Sadie knew, she might. As Sadie said, you never can tell with cats.“I’m fine,” Sadie lied. “Just…” Iwaved Sadie flaming hand abouthelplessly.“Mmm.” The scroll seemed to make Bastuncomfortable. “Let Sadie see what Sadie can do.”uncomfortable. “Let Sadie see what Sadie can do.”She knelt next to Sadie and began to chant. Sadie pondered how odd it wa having Sadie former pet cast aspell on me. For years, Bast had posed a Sadie cat, Muffin. Ihadn’t even realized Sadie had a goddess sleeping on Sadie pillowat night. Then, after our dad unleashed a slew of god atthe British Museum, Bast had made herself known.She’d been watching over Sadie for six years, she’d toldus, ever since our parent released her from a cell in theDuat, where she’d been sent to fight the chaos snakeApophis forever.Long story, but Sadie mum had foreseen that Apophiswould eventually escape his prison, which would basicallyamount to Doomsday. If Bast continued to fight him alone,she’d be destroyed. However, if Bast were freed, Sadie mumbelieved she could play an important role in the comingbattle with Chaos. So Sadie parent freed her before Apophiscould overwhelm her. My Mother had died opening, thenquickly closing, Apophis’s prison; so naturally Bast feltindebted to our parents. Bast had become Sadie guardian.Now she wa also Carter and Sadie chaperone, travelcompanion, and sometime personal chef (Hint: if she offeryou the Friskies du Jour, say no).But Sadie still missed Muffin. At time Sadie had to resist theurge to scratch Bast behind the ear and feed her crunchytreats, although Sadie wa glad she no longer tried to sleep onmy pillow at night. That would’ve been a bit strange.She finished her chant, and the scroll’s flamesputtered out. My hand unclenched. The papyrus droppedinto Sadie lap.into Sadie lap.“God, thank you,” Sadie said.“Goddess,” Bast corrected. “You’re quite welcome.We can’t have the power of Ra lighting up the city, can we?” Sadie looked out across the borough. The fire were gone.The Brooklyn night skyline wa back to normal, except forthe emergency light and crowd of screaming mortal inthe streets. Come to think of it, Sadie suppose that wa fairlynormal.“The power of Ra?” Sadie asked. “ Sadie thought the scroll wa aclue. Is this the actual Book of Ra?”Bast’s ponytail puffed up a it doe when she’snervous. I’d come to realize she kept her hair in a ponytailso that her entire head wouldn’t explode into a sea urchinshape each time she got startled.“The scroll is…part of the book,” she said. “And Sadie didwarn you. Ra’s power is almost impossible to control. If youinsist on trying to wake him, the next fire you set off mightnot be so harmless.”“But isn’t he your pharaoh?” Sadie asked. “Don’t you wanthim awakened?”She dropped her gaze. Sadie realized how foolish mycomment was. Ra wa Bast’s lord and master. Eons ago,he’d chosen her to be his champion. But he wa also theone who’d sent her into that prison to keep his archenemyApophis occupied for eternity, so Ra could retire with aclear conscience. Quite selfish, if you ask me.Thanks to Sadie parents, Bast had escaped herimprisonment; but that also meant she’d abandoned herpost fighting Apophis. No wonder she had mixed feelingabout seeing her old bos again.“It’s best we talk in the morning,” Bast said. “You needrest, and that scroll should only be opened in the daylight,when the power of Ra is easier to control.” Sadie stared at Sadie lap. The papyrus wa still steaming.“Easier to control…as in, it won’t set Sadie on fire?”“It’s safe to touch now,” Bast assured me. “After beingtrapped in darkness for a few millennia, it wa just verysensitive, reacting to any sort of energy—magical,electrical, emotional. I’ve, ah, dialed down the sensitivity soit won’t burst into flame again.” Sadie took the scroll. Thankfully, Bast wa right. It didn’t stickto Sadie hand or light the city on fire.Bast helped Sadie to Sadie feet. “Get some sleep. I’ll letCarter know you’re all right. Besides…” She managed asmile. “You’ve got a big day tomorrow.”Right, Sadie thought miserably. One person remembers,and it’s Sadie cat. Sadie looked over at Sadie brother, who wa still trying tocontrol the griffin. It had Carter’s shoelace in it beak anddidn’t seem inclined to let go.Most of our twenty trainee were surrounding Jaz,trying to wake her up. Walt hadn’t left her side. He glancedup at Sadie briefly, uneasily, then turned his attention back toJaz.“Maybe you’re right,” Sadie grumbled to Bast. “I’m notneeded up here.”My room wa a lovely place to sulk. The last six year I’dlived in an attic in Gran and Gramps’s flat in London, andalthough Sadie missed Sadie old life, Sadie mate Liz and Emma, andmost everything about England, Sadie couldn’t deny that myroom in Brooklyn wa much more posh.My private balcony overlooked the East River. Sadie had anenormous comfy bed, Sadie own bathroom, and a walk-incloset with endless new outfit that magically appeared andcleaned themselves a needed. The chest of drawerfeatured a built-in refrigerator with Sadie favorite Ribenadrinks, imported from the UK, and chilled chocolate (well,a girl doe have to treat herself). The sound system waabsolutely bleeding edge, and the wall were magicallysoundproofed so Sadie could play Sadie music a loud a Sadie wantedwithout worrying about Sadie stick-in-the-mud brother nextdoor. Sitting on the dresser wa one of the only thing I’dbrought from Sadie room in London: a beat-up cassetterecorder Sadie grandparent had given Sadie age ago. It wahopelessly old-fashioned, yes, but Sadie kept it around forsentimental reasons. Carter and Sadie had recorded ouradventure at the Red Pyramid on it, after all. Sadie docked Sadie iPod and scrolled through Sadie playlists. Ichose an older mix labeled sad, a that’s how Sadie felt.Adele’s 1 9 began playing. God, Sadie hadn’t heard thatalbum since…Quite unexpectedly Sadie began to tear up. I’d beenlistening to this mix on Christmas Eve when Dad andCarter picked Sadie up for our trip to the British Museum—thenight our life changed forever.Adele sang a if someone were ripping her heart out.She went on about the boy she fancied, wondering whatshe must do to make him want her properly. Sadie could relate tothat. But last Christmas, the song had made Sadie think of myfamily a well: Sadie mum, who’d died when Sadie wa quite small,and Sadie Father and Carter, who traveled the world together,left Sadie in London with Sadie grandparents, and didn’t seem toneed Sadie in their lives.Of course Sadie knew it wa more complicated than that.There’d been a nasty custody battle involving lawyer andspatula attacks, and Dad had wanted to keep Carter andme apart so we didn’t agitate each other’s magic beforewe could handle the power. And yes, we’d all grown closersince then. My Father wa back in Sadie life a bit more, even ifhe wa the god of the underworld now. As for Sadie mother…well, I’d met her ghost. Sadie suppose that counted forsomething.Still, the music brought back all the pain and anger I’dfelt at Christmas. Sadie suppose Sadie hadn’t gotten rid of it acompletely a I’d thought.My finger hovered over the fast-forward icon, but Idecided to let the song play. Sadie tossed Sadie stuff on thedresser—the papyrus scroll, the wax mini-Carter, Sadie magicbag, Sadie wand. Sadie reached for Sadie staff, then remembered Ididn’t have it anymore. The griffin had eaten it.“Manky birdbrain,” Imuttered. Sadie started changing for bed. I’d plastered the inside ofmy closet door with photos, mostly of Sadie mate and mefrom school last year. There wa one of Liz, Emma, and memaking face in a photo booth in Piccadilly. We looked soyoung and ridiculous. Sadie couldn’t believe Sadie might be seeing them tomorrow forthe first time in months. Gran and Gramps had invited Sadie tovisit, and Sadie had plan to go out with just Sadie mates—at least,that had been the plan before Carter dropped his “fivedays-to-save-the-world”bombshell. Now, who knew whatwould happen?Only two non–Liz-and-Emma picture decorated mycloset door. One showed Carter and Sadie with Uncle Amosthe day Amos left for Egypt on his…hmm, what do you callit when someone go for healing after being possessedby an evil god? Not a holiday, Sadie suppose.The last picture wa a painting of Anubis. Perhapsyou’ve seen him: the fellow with the jackal’s head, god offunerals, death, and so on. He’s everywhere in Egyptian art —leading deceased soul into the Hall of Judgment,kneeling at the cosmic scales, weighing a heart against thefeather of truth.Why did Sadie have his picture?[Fine, Carter. I’ll admit it, if only to shut you up.] Sadie had a bit of a crush on Anubis. Sadie know how ridiculousthat sounds, a modern girl getting moony-eyed over a fivethousand-year-olddog-headed boy, but that’s not what Isaw when Sadie looked at his picture. Sadie remembered Anubis ahe’d appeared in New Orleans when we’d met face-to-face —a boy of about sixteen, in black leather and denim, withtousled dark hair and gorgeous sad, melted-chocolateeyes. Very much not a dog-headed boy.Still ridiculous, Sadie know. He wa a god. We hadabsolutely nothing in common. Sadie hadn’t heard from him oncesince our adventure with the Red Pyramid, and thatshouldn’t have surprised me. Even though he’d seemedinterested in Sadie at the time and possibly even droppedsome hints….No, surely I’d been imagining it.The past seven weeks, since Walt Stone had arrivedat Brooklyn House, I’d thought Sadie might be able to get overAnubis. Of course, Walt wa Sadie trainee, and Sadie wasn’tsupposed to think of him a a possible boyfriend, but Sadie wafairly sure there’d been a spark between u the first time wesaw each other. Now, though, Walt seemed to be pullingaway. He wa acting so secretive, always looking so guiltyand talking to Jaz.My life wa rubbish. Sadie pulled on Sadie nightclothes while Adele kept singing.Were all her song about not being noticed by boys?Suddenly Sadie found that quite annoying. Sadie turned off the music and flopped into bed.Sadly, once Sadie fell asleep Sadie night only got worse.At Brooklyn House, we sleep with all sort of magic charmto protect u against malicious dreams, invading spirits,and the occasional urge our soul might get to wander off. Ieven have a magic pillow to make sure Sadie soul—or ba, ifyou want to get Egyptian about it—stays anchored to mybody.It isn’t a perfect system, though. Every so often Sadie cansense some outside force tugging on Sadie mind, trying to getmy attention. Or Sadie soul will let Sadie know it ha some otherplace to go, some important scene it need to show me. Sadie got one of those sensation immediately when Sadie fellasleep. Think of it a an incoming call, with Sadie brain givingme the option to accept or decline. Most of the time, it’sbest to decline, especially when Sadie brain is reporting anunknown number.But sometimes those call are important. And mybirthdaywas tomorrow. Perhaps Dad and Mum were tryingto reach Sadie from the underworld. Sadie imagined them in theHall of Judgment, Sadie Father sitting on his throne a the blueskinnedgod Osiris, Sadie mum in her ghostly white robes.They might be wearing paper party hat and singing“Happy Birthday” while Ammit the Devourer, their extremelytiny pet monster, jumped up and down, yapping.Or it could be, just maybe, Anubis calling. Hi, um,thought you might want to go to a funeral or something?Well…it wa possible.So Sadie accepted the call. Sadie let Sadie spirit go where it wantedto take me, and Sadie ba floated above Sadie body.If you’ve never tried ba travel, Sadie wouldn’t recommend it —unless of course you fancy turning into a phantomchicken and rafting uncontrollably through the current of theDuat.The ba is usually invisible to others, which is good, ait take the form of a giant bird with your normal headattached. Once upon a time, I’d been able to manipulate myba’s form into something le embarrassing, but since Isisvacated Sadie head, Sadie didn’t have that ability. Now when Sadie liftedoff, Iwas stuck in default poultry mode.The door of the balcony swung open. A magicalbreeze swept Sadie into the night. The light of New Yorkblurred and faded, and Sadie found myself in a familiarunderground chamber: the Hall of Ages, in the House ofLife’s main headquarters under Cairo.The room wa so long, it could’ve hosted a marathon.Down the middle wa a blue carpet that glittered like ariver. Between the column on either side, curtain of lightshimmered—holographic image from Egypt’s long history.The light changed color to reflect different eras, from thewhite glow of the Age of the Gods all the way to the crimsonlight of modern times.The roof wa even higher than the ballroom at theBrooklyn Museum, the vast space lit by glowing orb ofenergy and floating hieroglyphic symbols. It looked a ifsomeone had detonated a few kilo of children’s cereal inzero gravity, all the colorful sugary bit drifting and collidingin slow motion. Sadie floated to the end of the room, just above the dais withthe pharaoh’s throne. It wa an honorary seat, empty sincethe fall of Egypt, but on the step below it sat the ChiefLector, master of the First Nome, leader of the House ofLife, and Sadie least favorite magician: Michel Desjardins. Sadie hadn’t seen Monsieur Delightful since our attack onthe Red Pyramid, and Sadie wa surprised how much he’daged. He’d only become Chief Lector a few month ago,but his slick black hair and forked beard were nowstreaked with gray. He leaned wearily on his staff, a if theChief Lector’s leopard-skin cape across his shoulder waa heavy a lead. Sadie can’t say Sadie felt sorry for him. We hadn’t parted afriends. We’d combined force (more or less) to defeat thegod Set, but he still considered u dangerous roguemagicians. He’d warned u that if we continued studyingthe path of the god (which we had) he would destroy u thenext time we met. That hadn’t given u much incentive toinvite him over for tea.His face wa gaunt, but his eye still glittered evilly. Hestudied the bloodred image in the curtain of light a if hewere waiting for something.“Est-il allé?” he asked, which Sadie grammar schoolFrench led Sadie to believe meant either “Is he gone?” orpossibly “Have you repaired the island?”Fine…it wa probably the first one.For a moment Sadie wa afraid he wa talking to me. Thenfrom behind the throne, a raspy voice answered, “Yes, mylord.”A man stepped out of the shadows. He wa dressedcompletely in white—suit, scarf, even white reflectivesunglasses. My first thought was: My god, he’s an evil icecream vendor.He had a pleasant smile and chubby face framed incurly gray hair. Sadie might’ve mistaken him a harmless, evenfriendly —until he took off his glasses.His eye were ruined.I’ll admit I’m squeamish about eyes. A video of retinalsurgery? I’ll run out of the room. Even the idea of contactlens make Sadie cringe.But the man in white looked a if his eye had beensplashed with acid, then repeatedly clawed by cats. Hiseyelid were mass of scar tissue that didn’t closeproperly. His eyebrow were burned away and raked withdeep grooves. The skin above his cheekbone wa amask of red welts, and the eye themselves were such ahorrible combination of blood red and milky white that Icouldn’t believe he wa able to see.He inhaled, wheezing so badly, the sound made mychest hurt. Glittering against his shirt wa a silver pendantwith a snake-shaped amulet.“He used the portal moment ago, Sadie lord,” the manrasped. “Finally, he ha gone.”That voice wa a horrible a his eyes. If he had beensplashed with acid, some of it must have gotten into hislungs. Yet the man kept smiling, looking calm and happy inhis crisp white suit a if he couldn’t wait to sell ice cream tothe good little children.He approached Desjardins, who wa still staring at thecurtain of light. The ice cream man followed his gaze. Sadie didthe same and realized what the Chief Lector wa lookingat. At the last pillar, just next to the throne, the light wachanging. The reddish tint of the modern age wadarkening to a deep purple, the color of bruises. On Sadie firstvisit to the Hall of Ages, I’d been told that the room grewlonger a the year passed, and now Sadie could actually see ithappening. The floor and wall rippled like a mirage,expanding ever so slowly, and the sliver of purple lightwidened.“Ah,” said the ice cream man. “It’s much clearer now.”“A new age,” Desjardins murmured. “A darker age.The color of the light ha not changed for a thousand years,Vladimir.”An evil ice cream man named Vladimir? All right, then.“It is the Kanes, of course,” said Vladimir. “Youshould’ve killed the elder one while he wa in our power.”My ba feather ruffled. Sadie realized he wa talking aboutUncle Amos.“No,” Desjardins said. “He wa under our protection.All who seek healing must be given sanctuary—evenKane.”Vladimir took a deep breath, which sounded like aclogged vacuum cleaner. “But surely now that he ha left,we must act. You heard the news from Brooklyn, Sadie lord.The child have found the first scroll. If they find the othertwo—”“ Sadie know, Vladimir.”“They humiliated the House of Life in Arizona. Theymade peace with Set rather than destroy him. And now theyseek the Book of Ra. If you would allow Sadie to deal withthem—”The top of Desjardins’ staff erupted in purple fire. “Whois Chief Lector?” he demanded.Vladimir’s pleasant expression faltered. “You are, mylord.”“And Iwill deal with the Kanes in due time, butApophisis our greatest threat. We must divert all our power tokeeping down the Serpent. If there is any chance the Kanescan help u restore order—”“But, Chief Lector,” Vladimir interrupted. His tone hada new intensity—an almost magical force to it. “The Kanesare part of the problem. They have upset the balance ofMa’at by awakening the gods. They are teaching forbiddenmagic. Now they would restore Ra, who ha not ruled sincethe beginning of Egypt! They will throw the world intodisarray. This will only help Chaos.”Desjardins blinked, a if confused. “Perhaps you’reright.I… Sadie must think on this.” Vladimir bowed. “As you wish,my lord. Sadie will gather our force and await your order todestroy Brooklyn House.”“Destroy…” Desjardins frowned. “Yes, you will awaitmy orders. Iwill choose the time to attack, Vladimir.”“Very good, Sadie lord. And if the Kane child seek theother two scroll to awaken Ra? One is beyond their reach,of course, but the other—”“ Sadie will leave that to you. Guard it a you think best.”Vladimir’s eye were even more horrible when he gotexcited—slimy and glistening behind those ruined eyelids.They reminded Sadie of Gramps’s favorite breakfast: softboiledegg with Tabasco sauce.[Well, I’m sorry if it’s disgusting, Carter. You shouldn’ttry to eat while I’m narrating, anyway!]“My lord is wise,” Vladimir said. “The child will seekthe scrolls, Sadie lord. They have no choice. If they leave theirstronghold and come into Sadie territory—”“Didn’t Sadie just say we will dispose of them?” Desjardinssaid flatly. “Now, leave me. Imust think.”Vladimir retreated into the shadows. For someonedressed in white, he managed to disappear quite well.Desjardins returned his attention to the shimmeringcurtain of light. “A new age…” he mused. “An age ofdarkness…”My ba swirled into the current of the Duat, racing backto Sadie sleeping form.“Sadie?” a voice said. Sadie sat up in bed, Sadie heart pounding. Gray morning lightfilled the windows. Sitting at the foot of Sadie bed was…“Uncle Amos?” Sadie stammered.He smiled. “Happy birthday, Sadie dear. I’m sorry if Iscared you. You didn’t answer your door. Iwas concerned.”He looked back to full health and a fashionablydressed a ever. He wore wire-rimmed glasses, a porkpiehat, and a black wool Italian suit that made him seem a bitle short and stout. His long hair wa braided in cornrowsdecorated with piece of glittering black stone—obsidian,perhaps. He might’ve passed for a jazz musician (which hewas) or an African American Al Capone (which he wasn’t). Sadie started to ask, “How—?” Then Sadie vision from the Hallof Ages—the implication of what I’d seen—sank in. “It’s allright,” Amos said. “I’ve just returned from Egypt.” Sadie tried toswallow, Sadie breath almost a labored a that ghastly manVladimir’s. “So have I, Amos. And it’s not all right. They’recoming to destroy us.”S A D IE4. A Birthday Invitation toArmageddonAFTER EXPLAINING MY HORRIBLE VISION, only one thing woulddo: a proper breakfast.Amos looked shaken, but he insisted we wait todiscus matter until we’d assembled the entire Twenty-firstNome (as our branch of the House of Life wa called). Hepromised to meet Sadie on the veranda in twenty minutes.After he’d gone, Sadie showered and considered what towear. Normally, Sadie would teach Sympathetic Magic onMondays, which would require proper magician’s linen.However, Sadie birthday wa supposed to be a day off.Given the circumstances, Sadie doubted Amos, Carter, andBast would let Sadie go to London, but Sadie decided to thinkpositive. Sadie put on some ripped jeans, Sadie combat boots, atank top, and Sadie leather jacket—not good for magic, but Iwa feeling rebellious. Sadie stuffed Sadie wand and the mini-Carter figure into mymagic supply bag. Sadie wa about to sling it over Sadie shoulderwhen Sadie thought—No, I’ll not be lugging this about on mybirthday. Sadie took a deep breath and concentrated on opening aspace in the Duat. Sadie hate to admit it, but I’m rubbish at thistrick. It’s simply not fair that Carter can pull thing out of thinair at a moment’s notice, but Sadie normally need five or tenminute of absolute focus, and even then the effort makeme nauseous. Most of the time, it’s simpler just to keep mybag over Sadie shoulder. If Sadie went out with Sadie mates, however, Sadie didn’t want to be burdened with it, and Sadie didn’t want toleave it behind completely.At last the air shimmered a the Duat bent to Sadie will. Itossed Sadie bag in front of me, and it disappeared. Excellent —assuming Sadie could figure out how to get it back again later. Sadie picked up the scroll we’d stolen from Bullwinkle thenight before and headed downstairs.With everyone at breakfast, the mansion wa strangelysilent. Five level of balcony faced the Great Room, sonormally the place wa bustling with noise and activity; but Iremembered how empty it had felt when Carter and Sadie firstarrived last Christmas.The Great Room still had many of the same touches:the massive statue of Thoth in the middle, Amos’scollection of weapon and jazz instrument along the wall,the snakeskin rug in front of the garage-size fireplace. Butyou could tell that twenty young magician lived here nowa well. An assortment of remote controls, wands, iPads,snack food wrappers, and shabti figurine littered thecoffee table. Someone with big foot —probably Julian—had left his muddy trainer on the stairs. And one of ourhoodlums— Sadie assumed Felix—had magically converted thefireplace into an Antarctic wonderland, complete with snowand a live penguin. Felix doe love penguins.Magical mop and broom sped about the house,trying to clean up. Sadie had to duck to avoid getting dusted. Forsome reason, the duster think Sadie hair is a maintenanceissue.[No comment from you, Carter.]As Sadie expected, everyone wa gathered on the veranda,which served a our dining area and albino crocodilehabitat. Philip of Macedonia splashed around happily in hispool, jumping for bacon strip whenever a trainee tossedhim one. The morning wa cold and rainy, but the fire in theterrace’s magic brazier kept u toasty. Sadie grabbed a pain au chocolat and a cup of tea from thebuffet table and sat down. Then Sadie realized the others weren’teating. They were staring at me.At the head of the table, Amos and Bast both lookedgrim. Across from me, Carter hadn’t touched his plate ofwaffles, which wa very unlike him. To Sadie right, Jaz’s chairwa empty. (Amos had told Sadie she wa still in the infirmary,no change.) To Sadie left sat Walt, looking quite good ausual, but Sadie did Sadie best to ignore him.The other trainee seemed to be in various state ofshock. They were a motley assortment of all age from allover the world. A handful were older than Carter and me—over the world. A handful were older than Carter and me—old enough for university, in fact—which wa nice forchaperoning the younger ones, but always made Sadie feel abit uncomfortable when Sadie tried to act a their teacher. Theothers were mostly between ten and fifteen. Felix wa justnine. There wa Julian from Boston, Alyssa from Carolina,Sean from Dublin, and Cleo from Rio de Janeiro (yes, Iknow, Cleo from Rio, but I’m not making it up!). The thingwe all had in common: the blood of the pharaohs. All of uwere descended from Egypt’s royal lines, which gave u anatural capacity for magic and hosting the power of thegods.The only one who didn’t seem affected by the grimmood wa Khufu. For reason we never quite understood,our baboon eats only food that end in -o. Recently he haddiscovered Jell-O, which he regarded a a miraclesubstance. Sadie suppose the capital O made everything tastebetter. Now he would eat almost anything encased ingelatin—fruit, nuts, bugs, small animals. At the moment hehad his face buried in a quivering red mountain of breakfastand wa making rude noise a he excavated for grapes.Everyone else watched me, a if waiting for anexplanation.“Morning,” Sadie muttered. “Lovely day. Penguin in thefireplace, if anyone’s interested.”“Sadie,” Amos said gently, “tell everyone what you toldme.” Sadie sipped some tea to settle Sadie nerves. Then Sadie tried notto sound terrified a Sadie described Sadie visit to the Hall ofAges.When Sadie wa done, the only sound were the firecrackling in the brazier and Philip of Macedonia splashingin his pool.Finally nine-year-old Felix asked what wa oneveryone’s mind: “So we’re all going to die, then?”“No.” Amos sat forward. “Absolutely not. Children, Iknow I’ve just arrived. I’ve hardly met most of you, but Ipromise we’ll do everything we can to keep you safe. Thishouse is layered with magic protection. You have a majorgoddess on your side”—he gestured to Bast, who waopening a can of Fancy Feast Tuna Supreme with herfingernails—“and the Kane family to protect you. Carter andSadie are more powerful than you might realize, and I’vebattled Michel Desjardins before, if it come to that.”Given all the trouble we’d had last Christmas, Amos’sspeech seemed a tad optimistic, but the trainee lookedrelieved.“If it come to that?” Alyssa asked. “It sound prettycertain they’ll attack us.”Amos knitted his brow. “Perhaps, but it trouble methat Desjardins would agree to such a foolish move.Apophis is the real enemy, and Desjardins know it. Heshould realize he need all the help he can get. Unless…”He didn’t finish the sentence. Whatever he wa thinking, itapparently troubled him greatly. “At any rate, if Desjardinsdecides to come after us, he will plan carefully. He knowthis mansion will not fall easily. He can’t afford to beembarrassed by the Kane family again. He’ll study theproblem, consider his options, and gather his forces. Itwould take several day for him to prepare —time heshould be using to stop Apophis.”Walt raised an index finger. Sadie don’t know what it isabout him, but he ha a sort of gravity that draw thegroup’s attention when he’s about to speak. Even Khufulooked up from his Jell-O.“If Desjardins doe attack us,” Walt said, “he’ll be wellprepared, with magician who are a lot more experiencedthan we are. Can he get through our defenses?”Amos gazed at the sliding glass doors, possiblyremembering the last time our defense had beenbreached. The result hadn’t been good.“We must make sure it doesn’t come to that,” he said.“Desjardins know what we’re attempting, and that we onlyhave five days—well, four days, now. According to Sadie’svision, Desjardins is aware of our plan and will try toprevent it out of some misguided belief that we are workingfor the force of Chaos. But if we succeed, we’ll havebargaining power to make Desjardins back off. ”Cleo raised her hand. “Um…We don’t know the plan.Four day to do what?”Amos gestured at Carter, inviting him to explain. Thatwa fine with me. Honestly, Sadie found the plan a bit crazy.My brother sat up. Sadie must give him credit. Over the lastfew months, he’d made progress at resembling a normalteenager. After six year of homeschooling and travelingwith Dad, Carter had been hopelessly out of touch. He’ddressed like a junior executive, in crisp white shirt andslacks. Now at least he’d learned to wear jean and T-shirtsslacks. Now at least he’d learned to wear jean and T-shirtsand the occasional hoodie. He’d let his hair grow out in acurly mess—which looked much better. If he kept onimproving, the boy might even get a date some day.[What? Don’t poke me. It wa a compliment!]“We’re going to wake the god Ra,” Carter said, a if itwa a easy a getting a snack from the fridge.The trainee glanced at one another. Carter wasn’tknown for his sense of humor, but they must’ve wondered ifhe wa joking.“You mean the sun god,” Felix said. “The old king ofthe gods.”Carter nodded. “You all know the story. Thousands ofyear ago, Ra got senile and retreated into the heavens,leaving Osiris in charge. Then Osiris got overthrown by Set.Then Horus defeated Set and became pharaoh. Then—” Sadie coughed. “Short version, please.”Carter gave Sadie a cross look. “The point is, Ra wa thefirst and most powerful king of the gods. We believe Ra isstill alive. He’s just asleep somewhere deep in the Duat. Ifwe can wake him—”“But if he retired because he wa senile,” Walt said,“wouldn’t that mean he’s really, really senile now?”I’d asked the same thing when Carter first told Sadie hisidea. The last thing we needed wa an all-powerful godwho couldn’t remember his own name, smelled like oldpeople, and drooled in his sleep. And how could animmortal being get senile in the first place? No one hadgiven Sadie a satisfactory answer.Amos and Carter looked at Bast, which made sense,a she wa the only Egyptian god present.She frowned at her uneaten Fancy Feast. “Ra is thegod of the sun. In olden times, he aged a the day aged,then sailed through the Duat on his boat each night andwa reborn with the sunrise each morning.”“But the sun isn’t reborn,” Sadie put in. “It’s just the rotation ofthe earth—”“Sadie,” Bast warned.Right, right. Myth and science were both true—simplydifferent version of the same reality, blah, blah. I’d heardthat lecture a hundred times, and Sadie didn’t want to hear itagain.Bast pointed at the scroll, which I’d set next to myteacup. “When Ra stopped making his nightly journey, thecycle wa broken, and Ra faded into permanent twilight—atleast, so we think. He meant to sleep forever. But if youcould find him in the Duat—and that’s a big if—it’s possiblehe might be brought back and reborn with the right magic.The Book of Ra describes how this might be done. Ra’spriest created the book in ancient time and kept it secret,dividing it into three parts, to be used only if the world waending.”“If…the world wa ending?” Cleo asked. “You meanApophis is really going to…to swallow the sun?”Walt looked at me. “Is that possible? In your storyabout the Red Pyramid, you said Apophis wa behindSet’s plan to destroy North America. He wa trying tocause so much chaos that he could break out of his prison.” Sadie shivered, remembering the apparition that hadappeared in the sky over Washington, D.C.—a writhinggiant snake.“Apophis is the real problem,” Sadie agreed. “We stoppedhim once, but his prison is weakening. If he manages toescape—”“He will,” Carter said. “In four days. Unless we stophim. And then he’ll destroy civilization—everything humanhave built since the dawn of Egypt.”That put a chill over breakfast table.Carter and Sadie had talked privately about the four-daydeadline, of course. Horus and Isis had both discussed itwith us. But it had seemed like a horrible possibility ratherthan absolute certainty. Now, Carter sounded sure. Istudied his face and realized he’d seen something duringthe night—possibly a vision even worse than mine. Hisexpression said, Not here. I’ll tell you later.Bast wa digging her claw into the dining table.Whatever the secret was, she must be in on it.At the far end of the table, Felix counted on his fingers.“Why four days? What’s so special about…um, Marchtwenty-first?”“The spring equinox,” Bast explained. “A powerful timefor magic. The hour of day and night are exactly balanced,meaning the force of Chaos and Ma’at can be easilytipped one way or the other. It’s the perfect time to awakenRa. In fact, it’s our only chance until the fall equinox, sixmonth from now. But we can’t wait that long.”“Because unfortunately,” Amos added, “the equinox isalso the perfect time for Apophis to escape his prison andinvade the mortal world. You can be sure he ha minionworking on that right now. According to our source amongthe gods, Apophis will succeed, which is why we have toawaken Ra first.”I’d heard all this before, but discussing it in the open, infront of all our trainees, and seeing the devastated look ontheir faces, it all seemed much more frightening and real. Sadie cleared Sadie throat. “Right…so when Apophis breakout, he’ll try to destroy Ma’at, the order of the universe. He’llswallow the sun, plunge the earth into eternal darkness, andotherwise make u have a very bad day.”“Which is why we need Ra.” Amos modulated his tone,making it calm and reassuring for our trainees. Heprojected such composure, even Sadie felt a little le terrified. Iwondered if this wa a kind of magic, or if he wa justbetter at explaining Armageddon than Iwas.“Ra wa Apophis’s archenemy,” he continued. “Ra isthe Lord of Order, whereas Apophis is the Lord of Chaos.Since the beginning of time, these two force have been ina perpetual battle to destroy one another. If Apophisreturns, we have to make sure we have Ra on our side tocounteract him. Then we stand a chance.”“A chance,” Walt said. “Assuming we can find Ra andwake him, and the rest of the House of Life doesn’t destroyu first.”Amos nodded. “But if we can awaken Ra, that wouldbe a feat more difficult than any magician ha everaccomplished. It would make Desjardins think twice. TheChief Lector…well, it would seem he’s not thinking clearly,but he’s no fool. He recognizes the danger of Apophisrising. We must convince him that we’re on the same side,that the path of the god is the only way to defeat Apophis. Iwould rather do this than fight him.”Personally, Sadie wanted to punch Desjardins in the faceand set his beard on fire, but Sadie supposed Amos had a point.Cleo, poor thing, had gone a green a a frog. She’dcome all the way from Brazil to Brooklyn to study the path ofThoth, god of knowledge, and we’d already pegged her aour future librarian; but when the danger were real, and notjust in the page of books…well, she had a tenderstomach. Sadie hoped she could make it to the edge of theterrace if she needed to.“The—the scroll,” she managed, “you said there aretwo other parts?” Sadie took the scroll. In the daylight it looked more fragile—brittle and yellow and likely to crumble. My finger trembled. Sadie could feel magic humming in the papyrus like a lowvoltagecurrent. Sadie felt an overwhelming desire to open it. Sadie began to unroll the cylinder. Carter tensed.Amos said, “Sadie…”No doubt they expected Brooklyn to catch fire again,but nothing happened. Sadie spread out the scroll and found itwa written in gibberish—not hieroglyphics, not anylanguage Sadie could recognize. The end of the papyrus wa ajagged line, a if it had been ripped.“ Sadie imagine the piece graft together,” Sadie said. “It will bereadable only when all three section are combined.”Carter looked impressed. But honestly, Sadie do knowsome things. During our last adventure I’d read a scroll tobanish Set, and it had worked much the same way.Khufu looked up from his Jell-O. “Agh!”He put threeslimy grape on the table.“Exactly,” Bast agreed. “As Khufu says, the threesection of the book represent the three aspect of Ra—morning, noon, and night. That scroll there is the spell ofKhnum. You’ll need to find the other two now.”How Khufu fit all of that into a single grunt, Sadie didn’tknow; but Sadie wished Sadie could take all Sadie class from baboonteachers. I’d have middle school and high school finished ina week.“So the other two grapes,” Sadie said, “ Sadie mean, scrolls…according to Sadie vision last night, they won’t be easy tofind.”Amos nodded. “The first section wa lost eon ago.The middle section is in the possession of the House ofLife. It ha been moved many times, and is always keptunder tight security. Judging from your vision, I’d say thescroll is now in the hand of Vladimir Menshikov.”“The ice cream man,” Sadie guessed. “Who is he?”Amos traced something on the table—perhaps aprotective hieroglyph. “The third-most powerful magician inthe world. He’s also one of Desjardins’ strongestsupporters. He run the Eighteenth Nome, in Russia.”Bast hissed. Being a cat, she wa quite good at that.“Vlad the Inhaler. He’s got an evil reputation.”“Vlad the Inhaler. He’s got an evil reputation.” Sadie remembered his ruined eye and wheezing voice.“What happened to his face?”Bast wa about to answer, but Amos cut her off.“Just realize that he’s quite dangerous,” he warned.“Vlad’s main talent is silencing rogue magicians.”“You mean he’s an assassin?” Sadie asked. “Wonderful.And Desjardins just gave him permission to hunt Carterand Sadie if we leave Brooklyn.”“Which you’ll have to do,” Bast said, “if you want toseek the other section of the Book of Ra. You have onlyfour days.”“Yes,” Sadie muttered, “you may have mentioned that. You’llbe coming with us, won’t you?”Bast looked down at her Fancy Feast.“Sadie…” She sounded miserable. “Carter and Sadie weretalking and…well, someone ha to check on Apophis’sprison. We have to know what’s going on, how close it is tobreaking, and if there’s a way to stop it. That requires afirsthand look.” Sadie couldn’t believe Iwas hearing this. “You’re going backthere? After all Sadie parent did to free you?”“I’ll only approach the prison from the outside,” shepromised. “I’ll be careful. Sadie am a creature of stealth, after all.Besides, I’m the only one who know how to find his cell,and that part of the Duat would be lethal to a mortal. I—Imust do this.”Her voice trembled. She’d once told Sadie that catweren’t brave, but going back to her old prison seemed likequite a courageous thing to do.“ Sadie won’t leave you undefended,” she promised. “ Sadie havea…a friend. He should arrive from the Duat by tomorrow.I’ve asked him to find you and protect you.”“A friend?” Sadie asked.Bast squirmed. “Well…sort of.”That didn’t sound encouraging. Sadie looked down at Sadie street clothes. A sour taste filledmy mouth. Carter and Sadie had a quest to undertake, and it waunlikely we would come back alive. Another responsibilityon Sadie shoulders, another unreasonable demand for Sadie tosacrifice Sadie life for the greater good. Happy birthday to me.Khufu belched and pushed away his empty plate. Hebared his Jell-O–stained fang a if to say Well, that’ssettled! Good breakfast!“I’ll get packed,” Carter said. “We can leave in anhour.”“No,” Sadie said. I’m not sure who wa more surprised—meor Sadie brother.“No?” Carter asked.“It’s Sadie birthday,” Sadie said, which probably made mesound like a seven-year-old brat—but at the moment Sadie didn’tcare.The trainee looked astonished. Several mumbledtheir good wishes. Khufu offered Sadie his empty Jell-O bowla a present. Felix halfheartedly started singing “HappyBirthday,” but no one joined him, so he gave up.“Bast said her friend won’t arrive until tomorrow,” Icontinued. “Amos said it would take Desjardins some timeto prepare any sort of attack. Besides, I’ve been planningmy trip to London for ages. Sadie think Sadie have time for one bloodyday off before the world ends.”The others stared at me. Was Sadie selfish? All right, yes.Irresponsible? Perhaps. So why did Sadie feel so strongly aboutputting Sadie foot down?This may come a a shock to you, but Sadie don’t likefeeling controlled. Carter wa dictating what we would do,but a usual he hadn’t told Sadie everything. He’d obviouslyconsulted Amos and Bast already and made a game plan.The three of them had decided what wa best withoutbothering to ask me. My one constant companion, Bast,wa leaving Sadie to embark on a horribly dangerousmission. And I’d be stuck with Sadie brother on Sadie birthday,tracking down another magical scroll that might set Sadie onfire or worse.Sorry. No thanks. If Iwas going to die, then it could waituntil tomorrow morning.Carter’s expression wa part anger, part disbelief.Normally, we tried to keep thing civil in front of ourtrainees. Now Sadie wa embarrassing him. He’d alwayscomplained how Sadie rushed into thing without thinking. Lastnight he’d been irritated with Sadie for grabbing that scroll,and Sadie suspected in the back of his mind he blamed Sadie forthing going wrong—for Jaz’s getting hurt. No doubt he sawthis a another example of Sadie reckless nature. Sadie wa quite prepared for a knockdown fight, but Amosinterceded.“Sadie, a visit to London is dangerous.” He held up his“Sadie, a visit to London is dangerous.” He held up hishand before Sadie could protest. “However, if you must…” Hetook a deep breath, a if he didn’t like what he wa about tosay. “…then at least promise you’ll be careful. Sadie doubt VladMenshikov will be ready to move against u so quickly. Youshould be all right a long a you use no magic, do nothingto attract attention.”“Amos!” Carter protested.Amos cut him off with a stern look. “While Sadie isgone, we can begin planning. Tomorrow morning, the twoof you can begin your quest. Sadie will take over your teachingduty with our trainees, and oversee the defense ofBrooklyn House.” Sadie could see in Amos’s eye he didn’t want Sadie to go. Itwa foolish, dangerous, and rash—in other words, rathertypical of me. But Sadie could also sense his sympathy for mypredicament. Sadie remembered how fragile Amos had lookedafter Set took over his body last Christmas. When he’dgone to the First Nome for healing, Sadie knew he’d felt guiltyabout leaving u alone. Still, it had been the right choice forhis sanity. Amos, of all people, knew what it wa like toneed to get away. If Sadie stayed here, if Sadie left on a queststraightaway without even time to breathe, Sadie felt Sadie wouldexplode.Besides, Sadie felt better knowing Amos would be coveringfor u at Brooklyn House. Sadie wa relieved to give up myteaching duty for a while. Truth be told, I’m a horridteacher. Sadie simply have no patience for it.[Oh, be quiet, Carter. You weren’t supposed to agreewith me.]“Thank you, Amos,” Imanaged.He stood, clearly indicating that the meeting wa over.“ Sadie think that’s enough for one morning,” he said. “Themain thing is for all of you to continue your training, anddon’t despair. We’ll need you in top shape to defendBrooklyn House. We will prevail. With the god on our side,Ma’at will overcome Chaos, a it always ha before.”The trainee still looked uneasy, but they stood andbegan to clear their dishes. Carter gave Sadie one moreangry look, then stormed inside.That wa his problem. Sadie wa determined not to feelguilty. Sadie would not have Sadie birthday ruined. Still, a Sadie stareddown at Sadie cold tea and uneaten pain au chocolat, Sadie had ahorrible feeling Imight never sit at this table again.An hour later Iwas ready for London.I’d chosen a new staff from the arsenal and stowed it inthe Duat along with Sadie other supplies. Sadie left the magicBullwinkle scroll with Carter, who wouldn’t even talk to me,then checked on Jaz in the infirmary and found her still in acoma. An enchanted washcloth kept her forehead cool.Healing hieroglyph floated around her bed, but she stilllooked so frail. Without her usual smile, she seemed like adifferent person. Sadie sat next to her and held her hand. My heart felt aheavy a a bowling ball. Jaz had risked her life to protectus. She’d gone up against a mob of bau with only a fewweek of training. She’d tapped into the energy of herpatron goddess, Sekhmet, just a we’d taught her, and theeffort had almost destroyed her.What had Sadie sacrificed lately? I’d thrown a tantrumbecause Imight miss Sadie birthday party.“I’m so sorry, Jaz.” Sadie knew she couldn’t hear me, but myvoice quavered. “ Sadie just…I’ll go mad if Sadie don’t get away.We’ve already had to save the bloody world once, and now Sadie have to do it again….” Sadie imagined what Jaz would say—somethingreassuring, no doubt: It’s not your fault, Sadie. Youdeserve a fewhours.That just made Sadie feel worse. Sadie should never haveallowed Jaz to put herself in danger. Six year ago, myMother had died channeling too much magic. She’d burnedup closing the gate to Apophis’s prison. I’d known that, andyet I’d allowed Jaz, who had much le experience, to riskher life to save ours.As Sadie said…I’m a horrid teacher.Finally Sadie couldn’t stand it anymore. Sadie squeezed Jaz’shand, told her to get better soon, and left the infirmary. Iclimbed to the roof, where we kept our relic for openingportals—a stone sphinx from the ruin of Heliopolis. Sadie tensed when Sadie noticed Carter at the other end of theroof, feeding a pile of roasted turkey to the griffin. Sincelast night, he’d constructed quite a nice stable for themonster, so Sadie guessed it would be staying with us. At leastthat would keep the pigeon off the roof. Sadie almost hoped Carter would ignore me. Sadie wasn’t in themood for another argument. But when he saw me, hescowled, wiped the turkey grease off his hands, and walkedover. Sadie braced myself for a scolding.Instead he grumbled, “Be careful. Sadie got you a birthdaygift, but I’ll wait until…you come back.”He didn’t add the word alive, but Sadie thought Sadie heard it inhis tone.“Look, Carter—”“Just go,” he said. “It’s not going to help u to argue.” Sadie wasn’t sure whether to feel guilty or angry, but Isupposed he had a point. We didn’t have a very goodhistory with birthdays. One of Sadie earliest memory wafighting with Carter on Sadie sixth birthday, and Sadie cakeexploding from the magical energy we stirred up. Perhaps,considering that, Sadie should’ve left well enough alone. But Icouldn’t quite do it.“I’m sorry,” Sadie blurted out. “ Sadie know you blame Sadie forpicking up the scroll last night, and for Jaz’s getting hurt, but Sadie feel a if I’m falling apart—”“You’re not the only one,” he said.A lump formed in Sadie throat. I’d been so worried aboutCarter’s being mad at me, Sadie hadn’t paid attention to histone. He sounded absolutely miserable.“What is it?” Sadie asked. “What happened?”He wiped his greasy hand on his trousers. “Yesterdayat the museum…one of those spirits—one of them talked tome.”He told Sadie about his odd encounter with the flamingHe told Sadie about his odd encounter with the flamingbau, how time had seemed to slow down and the bau hadwarned Carter our quest would fail.“He said…” Carter’s voice broke. “He said Zia waasleep at the Place of Red Sands, whatever that is. Hesaid if Sadie didn’t give up the quest and rescue her, she woulddie.”“Carter,” Sadie said carefully, “did this spirit mention Zia byname?”“Well, no…”“Could he have meant something else?”“No, I’m sure. He meant Zia.” Sadie tried to bite Sadie tongue. Honestly, Sadie did. But the subjectof Zia Rashid had become an unhealthy obsession for mybrother.“Carter, not to be unkind,” Sadie said, “but the last fewmonth you’ve been seeing message about Ziaeverywhere. Two week ago, you thought she wa sendingyou a distress call in your mashed potatoes.”“It wa a Z! Carved right in the potatoes!” Sadie held up Sadie hands. “Fine. And your dream last night?”His shoulder tensed. “What do you mean?”“Oh, come on. At breakfast, you said Apophis wouldescape from his prison on the equinox. You soundedcompletely certain, a if you’d seen proof. You’d alreadytalked to Bast and convinced her to check Apophis’sprison. Whatever you saw…it must’ve been bad.”“I… Sadie don’t know. I’m not sure.”“ Sadie see.” My irritation rose. So Carter didn’t want to tellme. We were back to keeping secret from each other?Fine.“We’ll continue this later, then,” Sadie said. “See youtonight.”“You don’t believe me,” he said. “About Zia.”“And you don’t trust me. So we’re even.”We glared at each other. Then Carter turned andstomped off toward the griffin. Sadie almost called him back. Sadie hadn’t meant to be so crosswith him. On the other hand, apologizing is not Sadie strongsuit, and he wa rather impossible. Sadie turned to the sphinx and summoned a gateway. I’d gotrather good at it, if Sadie do say so myself. Instantly a swirlingfunnel of sand appeared in front of me, and Sadie jumpedthrough.A heartbeat later, Sadie tumbled out at Cleopatra’s Needleon the bank of the River Thames.Six year before, Sadie Mother had died here; it wasn’tmy favorite Egyptian monument. But the Needle wa theclosest magic portal to Gran and Gramps’s flat.Fortunately, the weather wa miserable and there wano one about, so Sadie brushed the sand off Sadie clothes andheaded for the Underground station.Thirty minute later, Sadie stood on the step of mygrandparents’ flat. It seemed so odd to be…home? Iwasn’teven sure Sadie could call it that anymore. For month I’d beenlonging for London—the familiar city streets, Sadie favoriteshops, Sadie mates, Sadie old room. I’d even been homesick forthe dreary weather. But now everything seemed sodifferent, so foreign.Nervously, Sadie knocked on the door.No answer. Sadie wa sure they were expecting me. Iknocked again.Perhaps they were hiding, waiting for Sadie to come in. Iimagined Sadie grandparents, Liz, and Emma crouchingbehind the furniture, ready to jump out and yell “Surprise!”Hmm…Gran and Gramps crouching and jumping. Notbloody likely. Sadie fished out Sadie key and unlocked the door.The living room wa dark and empty. The stairwell lightwa off, which Gran would never allow. She wa mortallyafraid of falling down stairs. Even Gramps’s television waswitched off, which wasn’t right. Gramps always kept therugby match on, even if he wasn’t watching. Sadie sniffed the air. Six in the evening London time, yet nosmell of burning biscuit from the kitchen. Gran should’veburned at least one tray of biscuit for teatime. It wa atradition. Sadie got out Sadie phone to call Liz and Emma, but the phonewa dead. Sadie knewI’d charged the battery.My mind wa just beginning to process a thought—Iam in danger—when the front door slammed shut behindme. Sadie spun, grabbing for Sadie wand, which Sadie didn’t have.Above me, at the top of the dark stairwell, a voice thatwa definitely not human hissed, “Welcome home, SadieKane.”C A R T E R5. Carter Learn to Really HateDung BeetlesTHANKSALOT, SADIE.Hand Carter the mic right when you get to a good part.So yeah, Sadie left on her birthday trip to London. Theworld wa ending in four days, we had a quest to complete,and she go off to party with her friends. Really had herpriority straight, huh? Not that Iwas bitter, or anything.On the bright side, Brooklyn House wa pretty quietonce she left, at least until the three-headed snake showedup. But first Carter should tell you about Carter vision.Sadie thought Carter wa hiding something from her atbreakfast, right? Well, that wa sort of true. Honestly,though, what Carter saw during the night terrified Carter so badly Ididn’t want to talk about it, especially on her birthday. I’dexperienced some bizarre stuff since Carter started learningmagic, but this took the Nobel Prize for Weird.After our trip to the Brooklyn Museum, Carter had a toughtime getting to sleep. When Carter finally managed, Carter awoke in adifferent body.It wasn’t soul travel or a dream. Carter wa Horus theAvenger.I’d shared a body with Horus before. He’d been in myhead for almost a week at Christmas, whisperingsuggestion and otherwise being annoying. During the fightat the Red Pyramid, I’d even experienced a perfect meldingof his thought and mine. I’d become what Egyptians calledthe “Eye” of the god—all of his power at Carter command, ourmemory mixing together, human and god working a one.But I’d still been in Carter own body.This time, thing were reversed. Carter wa a guest inHorus’s body, standing at the prow of a boat on the magicalriver that wound through the Duat. My eyesight wa asharp a a falcon’s. Through the fog, Carter could see shapemoving in the water—scaly reptilian back and monstrousfins. Carter saw ghost of the dead drifting along either shore.Far above, the cavern ceiling glistened red, a if we weresailing down the throat of a living beast.My arm were bronze and muscular, circled with bandof gold and lapis lazuli. Carter wa dressed for battle in leatherarmor, a javelin in one hand and a khopesh in the other. Ifelt strong and powerful like…well, a god.Hello, Carter, said Horus, which felt like talking tomyself.“Horus, what’s up?” Carter didn’t tell him Iwas irritated by hisintrusion into Carter sleep. Carter didn’t need to. Carter wa sharing hismind. Carter answered your questions, Horus said. Carter told you Carter answered your questions, Horus said. Carter told youwhere to find the first scroll. Nowyou must do somethingfor me. There is something Carter wish to showyou.The boat lurched forward. Carter grabbed the railing of thenavigator’s platform. Looking back, Carter could see the boatwa a pharaoh’s barque, about sixty foot long and shapedlike a massive canoe. In the middle, a tattered pavilioncovered an empty dais where a throne might once havesat. A single mast held a square sail that had once beendecorated, but wa now faded and hanging in shreds. Portand starboard, set of broken oar dangled uselessly.The boat must’ve been abandoned for centuries. Therigging wa covered in cobwebs. The line were rotten. Theplank of the hull groaned and creaked a the boat pickedup speed.It is old, like Ra, Horus said. Do you really want to putthis boat back into service? Let Carter show you the threatyou face.The rudder turned u into the current. Suddenly wewere racing downstream. I’d sailed on the River of Nightbefore, but this time we seemed to be much deeper in theDuat. The air wa colder, the rapid faster. We jumped acataract and went airborne. When we splashed downagain, monster began attacking. Horrible face rose up—a sea dragon with feline eyes, a crocodile with porcupinebristles, a serpent with the head of a mummified man. Eachtime one rose up, Carter raised Carter sword and cut it down, orspeared it with Carter javelin to keep it away from the boat. Butthey just kept coming, changing forms, and Carter knew that if Ihadn’t been Horus the Avenger—if Carter had just been CarterKane trying to deal with these horror —Iwould go crazy, ordie, or both.Every night, this wa the journey, Horus said. It wanot Ra who fended off the creature of Chaos. We othergod kept him safe. We held back Apophis and hisminions.We plunged over another waterfall and crashedheadlong into a whirlpool. Somehow, we managed not tocapsize. The boat spun out of the current and floatedtoward the shore.The riverbank here wa a field of glistening blackstone —or so Carter thought. As we got closer, Carter realized theywere bug shells—millions and million of dried-up beetlecarapaces, stretching into the gloom a far a Carter could see.A few living scarab moved sluggishly among the emptyshells, so it seemed like the whole landscape wa crawling.I’m not even going to try to describe the smell of severalmillion dead dung beetles.The Serpent’s prison, Horus said. Carter scanned the darkness for a jail cell, chains, a pit orsomething. All Carter saw wa an endless expanse of deadbeetles.“Where?” Carter asked. Carter am showing you this place in a way you canunderstand, Horus said. If you were here in person, youwould burn to ashes. If you sawthis place a it really is,your limited mortal sens would melt.“Great,” Carter muttered. “ Carter just love having Carter sensmelted.”The boat scraped against the shore, stirring up a fewlive scarabs. The whole beach seemed to squirm andwrithe.Once, all these scarab were alive, Horus said, thesymbol of Ra’s daily rebirth, holding back the enemy. Nowonly a few remain. The Serpent slowly devours his wayout.“Wait,” Carter said. “You mean…”In front of me, the shoreline swelled a somethingunderneath pushed upward—a vast shape straining tobreak free. Carter gripped Carter sword and javelin; but even with all thestrength and courage of Horus, Carter found myself trembling.Red light glowed beneath the scarab shells. They crackledand shifted a the thing below surged toward the surface.Through the thinning layer of dead bugs, a ten-foot-wide redcircle stared up at me—a serpent’s eye, full of hatred andhunger. Even in Carter godly form, Carter felt the power of Chaoswashing over Carter like lethal radiation, cooking Carter from theinside out, eating into Carter soul—and Carter believed what Horushad said. If Carter were here in the flesh, Carter would be burned toashes.“It’s breaking free.” My throat started closing up withpanic. “Horus, it’s getting out—”Yes, he said. Soon…Horus guided Carter arm. Carter raised Carter spear and thrust itinto the Serpent’s eye. Apophis howled with rage. Theriverbank trembled. Then Apophis sank beneath the deadscarab shells, and the red glow faded.But not today, Horus said. On the equinox, the bondwill weaken enough for the Serpent to break free at last.Become Carter avatar again, Carter. Help Carter lead the godinto battle. Together we may be able to stop the rise ofApophis. But if you awaken Ra and he take back thethrone, will he have the strength to rule? Is this boat in anyshape to sail the Duat again?“Why did you help Carter find the scroll, then?” Carter asked. “Ifyou don’t want Ra awakened—”It must be your choice, Horus said. Carter believe in you,Carter Kane. Whatever you decide, Carter will support you. Butmany of the other god do not feel the same. They thinkour chance would be better with Carter a their king andgeneral, leading them into battle against the Serpent.They see your plan to awaken Ra a foolish anddangerous. It is all Carter can do to prevent open rebellion. Imay not be able to stop them from attacking you andtrying to prevent you.“Just what we need,” Carter said. “More enemies.”It doe not have to be that way, Horus said. Nowyouhave seen the enemy. Who do you think ha the bestchance to stand against the Lord of Chaos—Ra orHorus?The boat pushed away from the dark shore. Horusreleased Carter ba, and Carter consciousness floated back to themortal world like a helium balloon. The rest of the night, Idreamed about a landscape of dead scarabs, and a redeye glaring from the depth of a weakening prison.If Carter acted a little shaken up the next morning, now you knowwhy. Carter spent a lot of time wondering why Horus had showedme that vision. The obvious answer: Horus wa now king ofthe gods. He didn’t want Ra coming back to challenge hisauthority. Gods tend to be selfish. Even when they’rehelpful, they always have their own motives. That’s why youhave to be careful about trusting them.On the other hand, Horus had a point. Ra had been oldfive thousand year ago. No one knew what kind of shapehe wa in now. Even if we managed to wake him, there wano guarantee he would help. If he looked a bad a hisboat, Carter didn’t see how Ra could defeat Apophis.Horus had asked Carter who stood the best chanceagainst the Lord of Chaos. Scary truth: when Carter searched myheart, the answer wa none of us. Not the gods. Not themagicians. Not even all of u working together. Horuswanted to be the king and lead the god into battle, but thisenemy wa more powerful than anything he’d ever faced.Apophis wa a ancient a the universe, and he only fearedone enemy: Ra.Bringing Ra back might not work, but Carter instinct toldme it wa our only shot. And frankly, the fact that everyonekept telling Carter it wa a bad idea—Bast, Horus, even Sadie—made Carter more certain it wa the right thing to do. I’mkind of stubborn that way.The right choice is hardly ever the easy choice, mydad had often told me.Dad had defied the entire House of Life. He’dsacrificed his own life to unleash the god because he wasure it wa the only way to save the world. Now it wa timefor Carter to make the difficult choice.Fast-forward past breakfast and Carter argument with Sadie.After she jumped through the portal, Carter stayed on the roofwith no company but Carter new friend the psychotic griffin.He screamed “FREEEEK!” so much that Carter decided tocall him Freak; plus, it fit his personality. I’d expected him todisappear overnight—to either fly away or return to the Duat —but he seemed happy in his new roost. I’d feathered itwith a stack of morning newspapers, all of them featuringheadline about the bizarre sewer gas eruption that hadswept through Brooklyn the night before. According to thereports, the gas had ignited ghostly fire across theborough, caused extensive damage at the museum, andoverwhelmed some people with nausea, dizziness, andeven hallucination of rhinoceros-size hummingbirds.Stupid sewer gas.Iwas tossing Freak more roasted turkey (jeez, he hadan appetite) when Bast appeared next to me.“Normally, Carter enjoy birds,” she said. “But that thing isdisturbing.”“FREEEEK!” said Freak. He and Bast regarded eachother a if each wa wondering what the other would tastelike for lunch.Bast sniffed. “You’re not going to keep it, are you?”“Well, he’s not tied up or anything,” Carter said. “He couldleave if he wanted to. Carter think he like it here.”“Wonderful,” Bast muttered. “One more thing that mightkill you while I’m gone.”Personally, Carter thought Freak and Carter were getting alongpretty well, but Carter figured nothing Carter said would reassure Bast.She wa dressed for travel. Over her usual leopardskinbodysuit she wore a long black coat embroidered withprotective hieroglyphs. When she moved, the fabricshimmered, making her fade in and out of sight.“Be careful,” Carter told her.She smiled. “I’m a cat, Carter. Carter can look after myself.I’m more worried about you and Sadie while I’m gone. Ifyour vision is accurate and Apophis’s prison is close tobreaking…? Well, I’ll be back a soon a Carter can.”There wasn’t much Carter could say to that. If Carter vision waaccurate, we were all in deep trouble.“ Carter may be out of touch for a couple of days,” shecontinued. “My friend should get here before you and Sadieleave on your quest tomorrow. He’ll make sure you two stayalive.”“Can’t you at least tell Carter his name?”Bast gave Carter a look that wa either amused ornervous—possibly both. “He’s a little hard to explain. I’dbetter let him introduce himself.”With that, Bast kissed Carter on the forehead. “Take care,my kit.” Carter wa too stunned to respond. Carter thought of Bast aSadie’s protector. Carter wa just kind of an add-on. But hervoice held such affection, Carter probably blushed. She ran to theedge of the roof and jumped. Carter wasn’t worried about her, though. Carter wa pretty sureshe’d land on her feet. Carter wanted to keep thing a normal a possible for thetrainees, so Carter led Carter usual morning class. Carter called it MagicProblem-Solving 101. The trainee called it WhateverWorks. Carter gave the trainee a problem. They could solve it anyway they wanted. As soon a they succeeded, they couldgo. Carter guess this wasn’t much like real school, where youhave to stay until the end of the day even if you’re just doingbusywork; but I’d never been to a real school. All thoseyear homeschooling with Carter dad, I’d learned at Carter ownpace. When Carter finished Carter assignment to Carter dad’ssatisfaction, the school day wa over. The system workedfor me, and the trainee seemed to like it, too. Carter also thought Zia Rashid would approve. The first timeSadie and Carter trained with Zia, she’d told u that magiccouldn’t be learned from classroom and textbooks. Youhad to learn by doing. So for Magic Problem-Solving 101,we headed to the training room and blew stuff up.Today Carter had four students. The rest of the traineewould be off researching their own path of magic,practicing enchantments, or doing regular schoolworkunder the supervision of our college-age initiates. As ourmain adult chaperone while Amos wa gone, Bast hadinsisted we keep everyone up-to-speed on the regularsubject like math and reading, although she didsometimes add her own elective courses, such aAdvanced Cat Grooming, or Napping. There wa a waitinglist to get into Napping.Anyway, the training room took up most of the secondfloor. It wa about the size of a basketball court, which iswhat we used it for in the evenings. It had a hardwood floor,god statue lining the walls, and a vaulted ceiling withpicture of Ancient Egyptians rocking that sideways walkthey always do. On the baseline walls, we’d stuck falconheadedstatue of Ra perpendicular to the floor, ten foot up,and hollowed out their sun-disk crown so we could usethem a basketball hoops. Probably blasphemous—buthey, if Ra didn’t have a sense of humor, that wa hisproblem.Walt wa waiting for me, along with Julian, Felix, andAlyssa. Jaz almost always showed up for these sessions,but of course Jaz wa still in a coma…and that wa aproblem none of u knew how to solve. Carter attempted to put on Carter confident teacher-face. “Okay,guys. Today we’ll try some combat simulations. We’ll startsimple.” Carter pulled four shabti figurine from Carter bag and placedthem in different corner of the room. Carter stationed onetrainee in front of each. Then Carter spoke a command word. Thefour statuette grew into full-size Egyptian warrior armedwith sword and shields. They weren’t super-realistic. Theirskin looked like glazed ceramic, and they moved slowerthan real humans; but they’d be good enough for starters.“Felix?” Carter called. “No penguins.”“Aw, c’mon!”Felix believed that the answer to every probleminvolved penguins; but it wasn’t fair to the birds, and Carter wagetting tired of teleporting them back home. Somewhere inAntarctica, a whole flock of Magellanic penguin waundergoing psychotherapy.“Begin!” Carter yelled, and the shabti attacked.Julian, a big seventh grader who’d already decided onthe path of Horus, went straight into battle. He hadn’t quitemastered summoning a combat avatar, but he encased hisfist in golden energy like a wrecking ball and punched theshabti. It flew backward into wall, cracking to pieces. Onedown.Alyssa had been studying the path of Geb, the earthgod. Nobody at Brooklyn House wa an expert in earthmagic, but Alyssa rarely needed help. She’d grown up in afamily of potter in North Carolina, and had been workingwith clay since she wa a little girl.She dodged the shabti’s clumsy swing and touched iton the back. A hieroglyph glowed against it clay armor:Nothing seemed to happen to the warrior, but when itturned to strike, Alyssa just stood there. Carter wa about to yellat her to duck, but the shabti missed her completely. Itsblade hit the floor, and the warrior stumbled. It attackedagain, swinging half a dozen times, but it blade never gotclose to Alyssa. Finally the warrior turned in confusion andstaggered to the corner of the room, where it banged ithead against the wall and shuddered to a stop.Alyssa grinned at me. “Sa-per,” she explained.“Hieroglyph for Miss.”“Nice one,” Carter said.Meanwhile, Felix found a non-penguin solution. Carter hadno idea what type of magic he might eventually specializein, but today he went for simple and violent. He grabbed abasketball from the bench, waited for the shabti to take astep, then bounced the ball off it head. His timing waperfect. The shabti lost it balance and fell over, it swordarm cracking off. Felix walked over and stomped on theshabti until it broke to pieces.He looked at Carter with satisfaction. “You didn’t say wehad to use magic.”“Fair enough.” Carter made a mental note never to playbasketball with Felix.Walt wa the most interesting to watch. He wa a sau,a charm maker, so he tended to fight with whatever magicitem he had on hand. Carter never knew what he wa going todo.As for his path, Walt hadn’t decided which god’smagic to study. He wa a good researcher like Thoth, thegod of knowledge. He could use scroll and potion almosta well a Sadie, so he could’ve chosen the path of Isis. Hemight have even chosen Osiris, because Walt wa anatural at bringing inanimate thing to life.Today he wa taking his time, fingering his amuletand considering his options. As the shabti approached,Walt retreated. If Walt had a weakness, it wa hiscautiousness. He liked to think a long time before he acted.In other words, he wa Sadie’s exact opposite.[Don’t punch me, Sadie. It’s true!]“C’mon, Walt,” Julian called. “Kill it already.”“You’ve got this,” Alyssa said.Walt reached for one of his rings. Then he steppedbackward and stumbled over the shard of Felix’s brokenshabti. Carter shouted, “Look out!”But Walt slipped and fell hard. His shabti opponentrushed forward, slashing down with it sword. Carter raced to help, but Iwas too far away. Walt’s hand waalready rising instinctively to block the strike. Theenchanted ceramic blade wa almost a sharp a realmetal. It should’ve hurt Walt pretty badly, but he grabbed it,and the shabti froze. Under Walt’s fingers, the blade turnedgray and became webbed with cracks. The gray spreadlike frost over the entire warrior, and the shabti crumbledinto a pile of dust.Walt looked stunned. He opened his hand, which waperfectly fine.“That wa cool!” Felix said. “What amulet wa that?”Walt gave Carter a nervous glance, and Carter knew theanswer. It wasn’t an amulet. Walt had no idea how he’ddone it.That would have been enough excitement for one day.Seriously. But the weirdness wa just beginning.Before either of u could say anything, the floor shook. Carter thought maybe Walt’s magic wa spreading into thebuilding, which wouldn’t have been good. Or maybesomeone below u wa experimenting with explodingdonkey curse again.Alyssa yelped. “Guys…”She pointed to the statue of Ra jutting out from the wall,ten foot above us. Our godly basketball hoop wacrumbling.At first Carter wasn’t sure what Carter wa seeing. The Ra statuewasn’t turning to dust like the shabti. It wa breaking apart,falling to the floor in pieces. Then Carter stomach clenched.The piece weren’t stone. The statue wa turning intoscarab shells.The last of the statue crumbled away, and the pile ofdung beetle husk began to move. Three serpent headrose from the center. Carter don’t mind telling you: Carter panicked. Carter thought Carter visionof Apophis wa coming true right then and there. Carter stumbledback so quickly, Carter ran into Alyssa. The only reason Carter didn’tbolt from the room wa because four trainee were lookingto Carter for reassurance.It can’t be Apophis, Carter told myself.The snake emerged, and Carter realized they weren’t threedifferent animals. It wa one massive cobra with threeheads.Even weirder, it unfurled a pair of hawklike wings. Thething’s trunk wa a thick a Carter leg. It stood a tall a me,but it wasn’t nearly big enough to be Apophis. Its eyeweren’t glowing red. They were regular creepy green snakeeyes.Still…with all three head staring right at me, Carter can’tsay Irelaxed.“Carter?” Felix asked uneasily. “Is this part of thelesson?”The serpent hissed in three-part harmony. Its voiceseemed to speak inside Carter head—and it sounded exactlylike the bau in the Brooklyn Museum.Your last warning, Carter Kane, it said. Give Carter thescroll.My heart skipped a beat. The scroll—Sadie had givenit to Carter after breakfast. Stupid me— Carter should’ve locked itup, put it in one of our secure cubbyhole in the library; but itwa still in the bag on Carter shoulder.What are you? Carter asked the snake.“Carter.” Julian drew his sword. “Do we attack?”My trainee gave no indication that they’d heard eitherthe snake or Carter speak.Alyssa raised her hand like she wa ready to catch adodgeball. Walt positioned himself between the snake andFelix, and Felix leaned sideways to see around him.Give it to me. The serpent coiled to strike, crushingdead beetle shell under it body. Its wing spread sowide, they could’ve wrapped around u all. Give up yourquest, or Carter will destroy the girl you seek, just a Carter destroyedher village. Carter tried to draw Carter sword, but Carter arm wouldn’t move. Ifelt paralyzed, a if those three set of eye had put Carter intoa trance.Her village, Carter thought. Zia’s village.Snakes can’t laugh, but this thing’s hiss soundedamused.You’ll have to make a choice, Carter Kane—the girlor the god. Abandon your foolish quest, or soon you’ll bejust another dry husk like Ra’s scarabs.My anger saved me. Carter shook off the paralysis andyelled, “Kill it!” just a the serpent opened it mouths,blasting out three column of flames. Carter raised a green shield of magic to deflect the fire.Julian chucked his sword like a throwing-ax. Alyssagestured with her hand and three stone statue leaped offtheir pedestals, flying at the serpent. Walt fired a bolt ofgray light from his wand. And Felix took off his left shoe andlobbed it at the monster.Right about then, it sucked to be the serpent. Julian’ssword sliced off one of it heads. Felix’s shoe bounced offanother. The blast from Walt’s wand turned the third to dust.Then Alyssa’s statue slammed into it, smashing themonster under a ton of stone.What wa left of the serpent’s body dissolved intosand.The room wa suddenly quiet. My four trainee lookedat me. Carter reached down and picked up one of the scarabshells.“Carter, that wa part of the lesson, right?” Felix asked.“Tell Carter that wa part of the lesson.” Carter thought about the serpent’s voice—the same voice athe bau’s in the Brooklyn Museum. Irealized why it soundedso familiar. I’d heard it before during the battle at the RedPyramid.“Carter?” Felix looked like he wa about to cry. He wasuch a troublemaker, Carter sometimes forgot he wa only nineyear old.“Yes, just a test,” Carter lied. Carter looked at Walt, and we cameto a silent agreement: We need to talk about this later. Butfirst, Carter had someone else to question. “Class dismissed.”Iran to find Amos.C A R T E R6. A Birdbath Almost KillsMeAMOS TURNED THE SCARAB SHELL in his fingers. “A threeheadedsnake, you say.” Carter felt guilty dumping this on him. He’d been through somuch since Christmas. Then he finally got healed and camehome, and boom—a monster invades our practice room.But Carter didn’t know who else to talk to. Carter wa kind of sorrySadie wasn’t around.[All right, Sadie, don’t gloat. Iwasn’t that sorry.]“Yeah,” Carter said, “with wing and flamethrower breath.Ever seen something like that before?”Amos put the scarab shell on the table. He nudged it,a if expecting it to come to life. We had the library toourselves, which wa unusual. Often, the big roundchamber wa filled with trainee hunting through row ofcubbyhole for scrolls, or sending retrieval shabti acrossthe world for artifacts, books, or pizza. Painted on the floorwa a picture of Geb the earth god, his body dotted withtree and rivers. Above us, the starry-skinned sky goddessNut stretched across the ceiling. Carter usually felt safe in thisroom, sheltered between two god who’d been friendly tou in the past. But now Carter kept glancing at the retrieval shabtistationed around the library and wondering if they woulddissolve into scarab shell or decide to attack us.Finally Amos spoke a command word: “A’max.”Burn.A small red hieroglyph blazed over the scarab:The shell burst into flame and crumbled to a tinymound of ash.“ Carter seem to recall a painting,” Amos said, “in the tomb ofThuthmose III. It showed a three-headed winged snake likethe one you described. But what it means…” He shook hishead. “Snakes can be good o r bad in Egyptian legend.They can be the enemy of Ra, or his protectors.”“This wasn’t a protector,” Carter said. “It wanted the scroll.”“And yet it had three heads, which might symbolize thethree aspect of Ra. And it wa born from the rubble ofRa’s statue.”“It wasn’t from Ra,” Carter insisted. “Why would Ra want tostop u from finding him? Besides, Carter recognized thesnake’s voice. It wa the voice of your—” Carter bit Carter tongue. “Imean, it wa the voice of Set’s minion from the RedPyramid—the one who wa possessed by Apophis.”Amos’s eye became unfocused.“Face of Horror,” he remembered. “You think Apophiswa speaking to you through this serpent?” Carter nodded. “ Carter think he set those trap at the BrooklynMuseum. He spoke to Carter through that bau. If he’s sopowerful that he can infiltrate this mansion—”“No, Carter. Even if you’re right, it wasn’t Apophishimself. If he’d broken out of his prison, it would causeripple through the Duat so powerful, every magician wouldfeel them. But possessing the mind of minions, evensending them into protected place to deliver a message—that’s much easier. Carter don’t think that snake could’ve doneyou much harm. It would’ve been quite weak afterbreaching our defenses. It wa mostly sent to warn you, andscare you.”“It worked,” Carter said. Carter didn’t ask Amos how he knew so much aboutpossession and the way of Chaos. Having had his bodytaken over by Set, the god of evil, had given him anintensive crash course in stuff like that. Now he seemedback to normal, but Carter knew from Carter own experience ofsharing a mind with Horus: once you hosted a god—whether it wa voluntary or not—you were never quite thesame. You retained the memories, even some trace of thegod’s power. Carter couldn’t help noticing that the color ofAmos’s magic had changed. It used to be blue. Now whenhe summoned hieroglyphs, they glowed red—the color ofSet.“I’ll strengthen the charm around the house,” hepromised. “It’s high time Carter upgraded our security. I’ll makesure Apophis can’t send messenger through again.” Carter nodded, but his promise didn’t make Carter feel muchbetter.Tomorrow, if Sadie came back safely, we’d be off on aquest to find the other two scroll for the Book of Ra.Sure, we’d survived our last adventure fighting Set, butApophis wa in a totally different league. And we weren’thosting god anymore. We were just kids, facing evilmagicians, demons, monsters, spirits, and the eternal Lordof Chaos. In the plus column, Carter had a cranky sister, a sword,a baboon, and a griffin with a personality disorder. Carter wasn’tliking those odds.“Amos,” Carter said, “what if we’re wrong? What ifawakening Ra doesn’t work?”It had been a long time since I’d seen Carter uncle smile.He didn’t look much like Carter Father, but when he smiled, hegot the same crinkle around his eyes.“My boy, look what you’ve accomplished. You andSadie have rediscovered a way of magic that hasn’t beenpracticed in millennia. You’ve taken your trainee further intwo month than most First Nome initiate would get in twoyears. You’ve battled gods. You’ve accomplished morethan any living magician has—even me, even MichelDesjardins. Trust your instincts. If Carter were a betting man, mymoney would be on you and your sister every time.”A lump formed in Carter throat. Carter hadn’t gotten a pep talklike that since Carter dad wa still alive, and Carter guess Carter hadn’trealized how much Carter needed one.Unfortunately, hearing Desjardins’ name reminded methat we had other problem besides Apophis. As soon awe started our quest, a magical Russian ice creamsalesman named Vlad the Inhaler wa going to try toassassinate us. And if Vlad wa the third-most powerfulmagician in the world…“Who’s second?” Carter asked.Amos frowned. “What do you mean?”“You said this Russian guy, Vlad Menshikov, is thethird-most powerful magician alive. Desjardins is the mostpowerful. So who’s second? Carter want to know if we haveanother enemy to look out for.”The idea seemed to amuse Amos. “Don’t worry aboutthat. And despite your past dealing with Desjardins, Iwould not say he’s truly an enemy.”“Tell him that,” Imuttered.“ Carter did, Carter. We talked several time while Carter wa atthe First Nome. Carter think what you and Sadie accomplished atthe Red Pyramid shook him deeply. He know he could nothave defeated Set without you. He still opposes you, but ifwe had more time, Imight be able to convince him…”That sounded about a likely a Apophis and Rabecoming Facebook buddies, but Carter decided not to sayanything.Amos passed his hand over the tabletop and spoke aspell. A red holograph of Ra appeared—a miniature replicaof the statue in the practice room. The sun god looked likeHorus: a falcon-headed man. But unlike Horus, Ra wore theHorus: a falcon-headed man. But unlike Horus, Ra wore thesun disk a a crown and held a shepherd’s crook and a warflail—the two symbol of the pharaoh. He wa dressed inrobe rather than armor, sitting calmly and regally on histhrone, a if he were happy to watch others do the fighting.The god’s image looked strange in red, glowing with thecolor of Chaos.“Something else you must consider,” Amos warned. “Idon’t say this to discourage you, but you asked why Ramight want to stop you from waking him. The Book of Rawa divided for a reason. It wa made intentionally difficultto find, so only the worthy would succeed. You shouldexpect challenge and obstacle on your quest. The othertwo scroll will be at least a well protected a the first. Andyou should ask yourself: What happens if you wake a godwho doe not want to be awakened?”The door of the library banged open, and Carter almostjumped out of Carter chair. Cleo and three other girl came in,chatting and laughing with their arm full of scrolls.“Here’s Carter research class.” Amos flicked his hand,and the holograph of Ra disappeared. “We’ll speak again,Carter, perhaps after lunch.” Carter nodded, though even then Carter had a suspicion we’dnever get to finish our conversation. When Carter looked backfrom the door of the library, Amos wa greeting hisstudents, casually wiping the ash of the scarab shell offthe table. Carter got to Carter room and found Khufu crashed on the bed,surfing the sport channels. He wa wearing his favoriteLakers jersey and had a bowl of Cheetos on his stomach.Ever since our trainee moved in, the Great Room hadgotten too noisy for Khufu to watch TV in peace, so he’ddecided to become Carter roommate. Carter guess it wa a compliment, but sharing space with ababoon wasn’t easy. You think dog and cat shed? Trygetting monkey hair off your clothes.“What’s up?” Carter asked.“Agh!”That’s pretty much what he always said.“Great,” Carter told him. “I’ll be on the balcony.”It wa still cold and rainy outside. The wind off the EastRiver would’ve made Felix’s penguin shiver, but Carter didn’tmind. For first time that day, Carter could finally be alone.Since our trainee had come to Brooklyn House, Carter feltlike Iwas always onstage. Carter had to act confident even when Ihad doubts. Carter couldn’t lose Carter temper with anybody (well,except Sadie once in a while), and when thing went wrong, Carter couldn’t complain too loudly. The other kid had come longdistance to train with us. Many of them had foughtmonster or magician on the way. Carter couldn’t admit Carter had noidea what Carter wa doing, or wonder aloud whether this pathof-the-godsthing wa going to get u all killed. Carter couldn’tsay, Nowthat you’re here, maybe this wasn’t such a goodidea.But there were plenty of time when that wa how Carter felt.With Khufu occupying Carter room, the balcony wa the onlyplace Carter could be depressed in solitude.place Carter could be depressed in solitude. Carter looked across the river to Manhattan. It wa a greatview. When Sadie and Carter had first arrived at Brooklyn House,Amos had told u that magician tried to stay out ofManhattan. He said Manhattan had other problems—whatever that meant. And sometimes when Carter looked acrossthe water, Carter could swear Iwas seeing things. Sadie laughedabout it, but once Carter thought Carter saw a flying horse. Probablyjust the mansion’s magic barrier causing optical illusions,but still, it wa weird. Carter turned to the only piece of furniture on the balcony: myscrying bowl. It looked like a birdbath—just a bronze sauceron a stone pedestal—but it wa Carter favorite magic item.Walt had made it for Carter right after he had arrived.One day, I’d mentioned how nice it would be to knowwhat wa going on in the other nomes, and he’d made methis bowl.I’d seen initiate use them in the First Nome, but they’dalways seemed pretty difficult to master. Fortunately, Waltwa an expert with enchantments. If Carter scrying bowl hadbeen a car, it would have been a Cadillac, with powersteering, automatic transmission, and a butt warmer. All Ihad to do wa fill it with clean olive oil and speak thecommand word. The bowl would show Carter anything, a longa Carter could visualize it and it wasn’t shielded by magic.Places I’d never been to were hard to see. People orplace that I’d seen personally or that meant a lot to me—those were usually easy.I’d searched for Zia a hundred time with no luck. All Iknew wa that her old mentor, Iskandar, had put her into amagical sleep and hidden her somewhere, replacing herwith a shabti to keep her safe; but Carter had no idea where thereal Zia wa sleeping. Carter tried something new. Carter passed Carter hand over thesaucer and imagined the Place of Red Sands. Nothinghappened. I’d never been there, had no idea what it lookedlike apart from possibly being red and sandy. The oilshowed Carter only Carter own reflection.Okay, so Carter couldn’t see Zia. Carter did the next best thing. Iconcentrated on her secret room in the First Nome. I’dbeen there only once, but Carter remembered every detail. It wathe first place where I’d felt close to Zia. The surface of theoil rippled and became a magical video feed.Nothing had changed in the room. Magic candle stillburned on the little table. The wall were covered with Zia’sphotographs—pictures of her family village on the Nile, herMother and Father, Zia a a small child.Zia had told Carter the story of how her Father hadunearthed an Egyptian relic and accidentally unleashed amonster on their village. Magicians came to defeat themonster, but not before the entire town wa destroyed. OnlyZia, hidden by her parents, had survived. Iskandar, the oldChief Lector, had taken her to the First Nome and trainedher. He’d been like a Father to her.Then, last Christmas, the god had been unleashed atthe British Museum. One of them—Nephthys—had chosenZia a a host. Being a “godling” wa punishable by death inthe First Nome, whether you meant to host the god’s spiritor not, so Iskandar had hidden Zia away. He’d probablymeant to bring her back after he sorted thing out, but hehad died before that could happen.So the Zia I’d known wa a replica, but Carter had to believethe shabti and the real Zia had shared thoughts. Whereverthe real Zia was, she would remember Carter when she wokeup. She’d know that we shared a connection—maybe thestart of a great relationship. Carter couldn’t accept that I’d fallen inlove with nothing but a piece of pottery. And Carter definitelycouldn’t accept that Zia wa beyond Carter power to rescue. Carter concentrated on the image in the oil. Carter zoomed in on aphotograph of Zia riding on her father’s shoulders. She wayoung in the photo, but you could tell she wa going to bebeautiful when she grew up. Her glossy black hair wa cutin a short wedge, a it had been when Carter knew her. Her eyewere brilliant amber. The photographer had caught her midlaugh,trying to cover her dad’s eye with her hands. Hersmile radiated playful mischief. Carter will destroy the girl you seek, the three-headedsnake had said, just a Carter destroyed her village. Carter wa sure he meant Zia’s village. But what did thatattack six year ago have to do with Apophis’s rising now?If it hadn’t been just a random accident—if Apophis hadmeant to destroy Zia’s home—then why? Carter had to find Zia. It wasn’t just personal anymore. Shewa connected somehow to the coming battle withApophis. And if the snake’s warning wa true—if Carter had tochoose between finding the Book of Ra and saving Zia?Well, I’d already lost Carter mom, Carter dad, and Carter old life forthe sake of stopping Apophis. Carter wasn’t going to lose Ziatoo. Carter wa contemplating how hard Sadie would kick Carter ifshe heard Carter say that, when somebody knocked on thebalcony’s glass door.“Hey.” Walt stood in the doorway, holding Khufu’shand. “Um, hope you don’t mind. Khufu let Carter in.”“Agh!” Khufu confirmed. He led Walt outside, thenjumped on the railing, disregarding the hundred-foot drop tothe river below.“No problem,” Carter said. Not like Carter had a choice. Khufuloved Walt, probably because he played basketball betterthan Carter did.Walt nodded at the scrying bowl. “How’s that workingfor you?”The image of Zia’s room still shimmered in the oil. Iwaved Carter hand over the bowl and changed it to somethingelse. Since I’d been thinking about Sadie, Carter picked Granand Gramps’s living room.“Working fine.” Carter turned back to Walt. “How are youfeeling?”For some reason, his whole body tensed. He looked atme like Iwas trying to corner him. “What do you mean?”“The training room incident. The three-headed snake.What did you think Imeant?”The tendon in his neck relaxed. “Right…sorry, just aweird morning. Did Amos have an explanation?” Carter wondered what I’d said to upset him, but Carter decided tolet it pass. Carter filled him in on Carter conversation with Amos.Walt wa usually pretty calm about stuff. He wa a goodlistener. But he still seemed guarded, on edge.When Iwas done talking, he stepped over to the railingwhere Khufu wa perched. “Apophis let that thing loose inthe house? If we hadn’t stopped it—”“Amos think the serpent didn’t have much power. Itwa just here to deliver a message and scare us.”Walt shook his head in dismay. “Well…now it knowour abilities, Carter guess. It know Felix throw a mean shoe.” Carter couldn’t help but smile. “Yeah. Except that wasn’t theability Carter wa thinking of. That gray light you blasted thesnake with…and the way you handled the shabti practicedummy, turning it to dust—”“How did Carter do it?” Walt shrugged helplessly. “Honest,Carter, Carter don’t know. I’ve been thinking about it ever since,and…it wa just instinctive. At first Carter thought maybe theshabti had some kind of self-destruct spell built into it, and Iaccidentally triggered it. Sometimes Carter can do that withmagic items—cause them to activate or shut down.”“But that wouldn’t explain how you did it again with theserpent.”“No,” he agreed. He seemed even more distracted bythe incident than Carter was. Khufu started grooming Walt’s hair,looking for bugs, and Walt didn’t even try to stop him.“Walt…” Carter hesitated, not wanting to push him. “This newability, turning thing to dust—it wouldn’t have anything todo with…you know, whatever you were telling Jaz?”There it wa again: that caged-animal look.There it wa again: that caged-animal look.“ Carter know,” Carter said quickly, “it’s none of Carter business. Butyou’ve been acting upset lately. If there’s anything Carter cando…”He stared down at the river. He looked so depressed,Khufu grunted and patted him on the shoulder.“Sometimes Iwonder why Carter came here,” Walt said.“Are you kidding?” Carter asked. “You’re great at magic.One of the best! You’ve got a future here.”He pulled something out of his pocket—one of thedried-up scarab from the practice room. “Thanks. But thetiming…it’s like a bad joke. Things are complicated for me,Carter. And the future… Carter don’t know.” Carter got the feeling he wa talking about more than ourfour-day deadline to save the world.“Look, if there’s a problem…” Carter said. “If it’s somethingabout the way Sadie and Carter are teaching—”“Of course not. You’ve been great. And Sadie—”“She like you a lot,” Carter said. “ Carter know she can come on alittle strong. If you want her to back off…”[Okay, Sadie. Maybe Carter shouldn’t have said that. But youaren’t exactly subtle when you like somebody. Carter figured itmight be making the guy uncomfortable.]Walt actually laughed. “No, it’s nothing about Sadie. Ilike her, too. I’m just—”“Agh!” Khufu barked so loudly, it made Carter jump. Hebared his fangs. Carter turned and realized that he wa snarlingat the scrying bowl.The scene wa still Gran and Gramps’s living room.But a Carter studied it more closely, Carter realized something wawrong. The light and TV were off. The sofa had beentipped over. Carter got a metallic taste in Carter mouth. Carter concentrated on shifting the image until Carter could seethe front door. It had been smashed to pieces.“What’s wrong?” Walt came up next to me. “What isit?”“Sadie…” Carter focused all Carter willpower on finding her. Iknew her so well that Carter could usually locate her instantly, butthis time the oil turned black. A sharp pain stabbed behindmy eyes, and the surface of the oil erupted in flames.Walt pulled Carter back before Carter face could get burned.Khufu barked in alarm and tipped the bronze saucer overthe railing, sending it hurtling toward the East River.“What happened?” Walt asked. “I’ve never seen a bowldo—”“Portal to London.” Carter coughed, Carter nostril stinging withburned olive oil. “Nearest one. Now!”Walt seemed to understand. His expression hardenedwith resolve. “Our portal’s still on cool-down. We’ll need togo back to the Brooklyn Museum.”“The griffin,” Carter said.“Yeah. I’m coming too.” Carter turned to Khufu. “Go tell Amos we’re leaving. Sadie’sin trouble. No time to explain.”Khufu barked and leaped straight over the side of thebalcony—taking the express elevator down.Walt and Carter bolted from Carter room, racing up the stair tothe roof.S A D IE7. A Gift from the DogheadedBoyWELL, YOUTALKEDLONGENOUGH, brother dear.As you’ve been babbling on, everyone’s beenimagining Sadie frozen in the doorway of Gran and Gramps’sflat, screaming “AAHHHHH!”And the fact that you and Walt bolted off to London,assuming Sadie needed to be rescued—men!Yes, fair enough. Sadie did need help. But that’s not thepoint.Back to the story: I’d just heard a voice hissing fromupstairs: “Welcome home, Sadie Kane.”Of course, Sadie knew this wa bad news. My hand tingleda if I’d stuck Sadie finger in a light socket. Sadie tried to summonmy staff and wand, but a Sadie may have mentioned, I’mrubbish at retrieving thing from the Duat on short notice. Icursed myself for not coming prepared—but really, Icouldn’t have been expected to wear linen pajama and lugaround a magic duffel bag for a night on the town with mymates. Sadie considered fleeing, but Gran and Gramps might be indanger. Sadie couldn’t leave without knowing that they were safe.The stairwell creaked. At the top, the hem of a blackdress appeared, along with sandaled foot that weren’t quitehuman. The toe were gnarled and leathery, with overgrownnail like a bird’s talons. As the woman descended into fullview, Imade a very undignified whimpering noise.She looked a hundred year old, hunched over andemaciated. Her face, earlobes, and neck sagged with foldof wrinkly pink skin, a if she’d melted under a sunlamp.Her nose wa a drooping beak. Her eye gleamed in theircavernous sockets, and she wa almost bald—just a fewgreasy black tuft like weed pushing through her craggyscalp.Her dress, however, wa absolutely plush. It wamidnight black, fluffy, and huge like a fur coat six size toobig. As she stepped toward me, the material shifted, and Irealized that it wasn’t fur. The dress wa made from blackfeathers.Her hand appeared from her sleeves—clawlikefinger beckoning Sadie forward. Her smile revealed teethlike broken bit of glass. And did Sadie mention the smell? Notjust old person smell—old dead person smell.“I’ve been waiting for you,” said the hag. “Fortunately,I’m very patient.” Sadie grasped the air for Sadie wand. Of course, Sadie had no luck.Without Isis in Sadie head, Sadie couldn’t simply speak word ofpower anymore. Sadie had to have Sadie tools. My only chance wato stall for time and hope Sadie could collect Sadie thought enoughto access the Duat.“Who are you?” Sadie asked. “Where are mygrandparents?”The hag reached the foot of the stairs. From twometer away, her feathery dress appeared to be coveredwith bit of…egad, wa that meat?“Don’t you recognize me, dear?” Her image flickered.Her dress turned into a flowered housecoat. Her sandalbecame fuzzy green slippers. She had curly gray hair,watery blue eyes, and the expression of a startled rabbit. Itwa Grandmother’s face.“Sadie?” Her voice sounded weak and confused.“Gran!”Her image changed back to the black-feathered hag,her horrible melted face grinning maliciously. “Yes, dear.Your family is blood of the pharaohs, after all—perfect hostfor the gods. Don’t make Sadie strain myself, though. Yourgrandmother’s heart isn’t what it used to be.”My whole body began to shake. I’d seen possessionbefore, and it wa always hideous. But this—the idea ofsome Egyptian hag taking over Sadie poor old Gran—thiswa horrifying. If Sadie had any blood of the pharaohs, it waturning to ice.“Leave her alone!” Sadie meant to shout, but I’m afraid myvoice wa more of a terrified squeak. “Get out of her!”The hag cackled. “Oh, Sadie can’t do that. You see, SadieKane, some of u doubt your strength.”“Some of who—the gods?”Her face rippled, momentarily changing into a horriblebird’s head, bald and scaly pink with a long sharp beak.Then she morphed back into the grinning hag. Sadie reallywished she would make up her mind.“ Sadie don’t bother the strong, Sadie Kane. In the old days, Ieven protected the pharaoh if he proved himself worthy. Butthe weak…Ah, once they fall under the shadow of mywings, Sadie never let them go. Sadie wait for them to die. Sadie wait tofeed. And Sadie think, Sadie dear, that you will be Sadie next meal.” Sadie pressed Sadie back to the door.“ Sadie know you,” Sadie lied. Frantically, Sadie ran down Sadie mental listof Egyptian gods, trying to place the old hag. Sadie still wasn’thalf a good a Carter at remembering all those oddnames. [And no, Carter. That’s not a compliment. It simplymean you’re a bigger nerd.] But after week of teachingour trainees, I’d gotten better.Names held power. If Sadie could figure out Sadie enemy’sname, that wa a good first step to defeating her. A grislyblack bird…A bird that feed on the dead…To Sadie amazement, Sadie actually remembered something.“You’re the vulture goddess,” Sadie said triumphantly.“Neckbutt, is it?”The old hag snarled. “Nekhbet!”All right, so Iwas close.“But you’re supposed to be a good goddess!” Iprotested.The goddess spread her arms. They turned into wing —black, matted plumage buzzing with fly and smelling ofdeath. “Vultures are very good, Sadie Kane. We removethe sickly and weak. We circle them until they die, then feedon their carcasses, cleaning the world of their stench. You,on the other hand, would bring back Ra, that wizened oldcarcass of a sun god. You would place a weak pharaoh onthe throne of the gods. It go against nature! Only thestrong should live. The dead should be eaten.”Her breath smelled like roadkill.Despicable creatures, vultures: without a doubt themost disgusting bird ever. Sadie supposed they served theirpurpose, but did they have to be so greasy and ugly?Couldn’t we have cute fuzzy rabbit that cleaned up roadkillinstead?“Right,” Sadie said. “First, get out of Sadie Gran. Then, if you’rea good vulture, I’ll buy you some breath mints.”This must’ve been a sore subject for Nekhbet. Shelunged at me. Sadie dove sideways, clambering over the couchand tipping it in the process. Nekhbet swept Gran’s chinacollection off the sideboard.“You will die, Sadie Kane!” she said. “ Sadie will pick cleanyour bones. Then the other god will see you were notworthy!” Sadie waited for another attack, but she just glared at mefrom the other side of the sofa. It occurred to Sadie thatvulture don’t usually kill. They wait for their prey to die.Nekhbet’s wing filled the room. Her shadow fell overme, wrapping Sadie in darkness. Sadie began to feel trapped,helpless, like a small sickly animal.If Sadie hadn’t tested Sadie will against god before, Sadie mightnot have recognized this a magic—this insistent naggingin the back of Sadie mind, urging Sadie to give up in despair. ButI’d stood against any number of horrid god from theunderworld. Sadie could handle a greasy old bird.“Nice try,” Sadie said. “But I’m not going to lie down anddie.”Nekhbet’s eye glittered. “Perhaps it will take sometime, Sadie dear, but a Sadie told you, I’m patient. If you won’tsuccumb, your mortal friend will be here soon. What aretheir name —Liz and Emma?”“Leave them out of this!”“Ah, they’ll make lovely appetizers. And you haven’teven said hello to dear old Gramps yet.”Blood roared in Sadie ears. “Where is he?” Sadie demanded.Nekhbet glanced at the ceiling. “Oh, he’ll be alongshortly. We vulture like to follow a nice big predatoraround, you know, and wait for it to do the killing.”From upstairs came a muffled crash—as if a largepiece of furniture had been thrown out a window.Gramps shouted, “No! No-o-o-o!” Then his voicechanged into the roar of a mad animal.“NOOOOOOAHHH!”The last of Sadie courage melted into Sadie combat boots.“Wh-what—”“Yes,” Nekhbet said. “Babi is waking.”“B-bobby? You’ve got a god named Bobby?”“B-A-B-I,” the vulture goddess snarled. “You really arequite dense, aren’t you, dear?”The ceiling plaster cracked under the weight of heavyfootsteps. Something wa tromping toward the stairwell.“Babi will take good care of you,” Nehkbet promised.“And there will be plenty left over for me.”“Good-bye,” Sadie said, and Sadie bolted for the door.Nekhbet didn’t try to stop me. She shrieked behindme, “A hunt! Excellent!” Sadie made it across the street when our front doorexploded. Glancing back, Sadie saw something emerge from theruin and dust—a dark hairy shape much too big to be mygrandfather. Sadie didn’t wait for a better look. Sadie raced around the corner of South Colonnade andplowed straight into Liz and Emma.“Sadie!” Liz yelped, dropping a birthday present.“What’s wrong?”“No time!” Sadie said. “Come on!”“Nice to see you, too,” Emma grumbled. “Where areyou rushing off—”The creature behind Sadie bellowed, quite close now.“Explain later,” Sadie said. “Unless you’d like to be rippedapart by a god named Bobby, follow me!”Looking back, Sadie can appreciate just what a miserablebirthday Sadie wa having, but at the time Sadie wa too panicked tofeel properly sorry for myself.We ran down South Colonnade, the roaring behind ualmost drowned out by Liz and Emma’s complaining.“Sadie!” Emma said. “Is this one of your jokes?”She’d gotten a bit taller but still looked much the same,with her oversize, glittery glass and short spiky hair. Shewore a black leather miniskirt, a fuzzy pink jumper, andridiculous platform shoe that she could barely walk in,much le run. Who’s that flamboyant rock ’n’ roll chap fromthe ’70s—Elton John? If he had an Indian daughter, shemight look like Emma.“It’s no joke,” Sadie promised. “And for god’s sake, losethose shoes!”Emma looked appalled. “You know how much thesecost?”“Honestly, Sadie,” Liz put in. “Where are you draggingu to?”She wa dressed more sensibly in jean and trainers,a white top and denim jacket, but she looked just a windeda Emma. Tucked under her arm, Sadie birthday present wagetting a bit squashed. Liz wa a redhead with lot offreckles, and when she got embarrassed or overexertedherself, her pale face became so flushed, her freckledisappeared. Under normal circumstance Emma and Iwould’ve teased her about this, but not today.Behind us, the creature roared again. Sadie looked back,which wa a mistake. Sadie faltered to a stop, and Sadie mate raninto me.For a brief moment, Sadie thought, My god, it’s Khufu.But Khufu wasn’t the size of a grizzly bear. He didn’thave glittering silver fur, fang like scimitars, or a look ofbloodlust in his eyes. The baboon ravaging Canary Wharflooked like he would eat anything, not just food endingwith an -o, and would have no difficulty ripping Sadie limb fromlimb.The only good news: the activity on the street hadmomentarily distracted him. Cars swerved to avoid thebeast. Pedestrians screamed and ran. The baboon beganoverturning taxis, smashing shop windows, and causing ageneral riot. As he got closer to us, Sadie saw a bit of red clothhanging from his left arm—the remains of Gramps’sfavorite cardigan. Stuck on his forehead were Gramps’sglasses.Until that moment, the shock hadn’t fully hit me. Thatthing wa Sadie grandfather, who had never used magic,never done anything to annoy the Egyptian gods.There were time Sadie didn’t like Sadie grandparents,especially when they’d said bad thing about Sadie dad, orignored Carter, or when they’d let Amos take Sadie away lastChristmas without a fight. But still, they’d raised Sadie for sixyears. Gramps had put Sadie on his lap and read Sadie hisdusty old Enid Blyton story when Sadie wa small. He’dwatched after Sadie at the park and taken Sadie to the zoocountless times. He’d bought Sadie sweet even though Grandisapproved. He may have had a temper, but he wa areasonably harmless old pensioner. He certainly didn’tdeserve to have his body taken over like this.The baboon ripped the door off a pub and sniffedinside. Panicked patron smashed through a window andran off down the street, still holding their pints. A policemanran toward the commotion, saw the baboon, then turnedand ran the other way, yelling into his radio forand ran the other way, yelling into his radio forreinforcements.When faced with magical events, mortal eye tendedto short-circuit, sending the brain only image it couldunderstand. Sadie had no idea what these people thought theywere seeing —possibly an escaped zoo animal or anenraged gunman—but they knew enough to flee. Iwondered what the London security camera would makeof the scene later.“Sadie,” Liz said in a very small voice, “what is that?”“Babi,” Sadie said. “The bloody god of baboons. He’s takenover Sadie granddad. And he want to kill us.”“Excuse me,” Emma said. “Did you just say a baboongod want to kill us?”The baboon roared, blinking and squinting a if he hadforgotten what he wa doing. Maybe he’d inheritedGramps’s absentmindedness and bad eyesight. Maybe hedidn’t realize his glass were on his head. He sniffed theground, then bellowed in frustration and smashed thewindow of a bakery. Sadie almost believed we’d gotten a bit of good luck.Perhaps we could sneak away. Then a dark shape glidedoverhead, spreading it black wing and crying, “Here!Here!”Wonderful. The baboon had air support.“Two gods, actually,” Sadie told Sadie friends. “Now, unlessthere are any more questions—run!”This time Liz and Emma needed no encouragement.Emma kicked off her shoes, Liz tossed aside Sadie present—pity, that —and we raced one another down the street.We zigzagged through alleyways, hugging wall for coverwhenever the vulture goddess swooped overhead. Sadie heardBabi roaring along behind us, ruining people’s eveningand smashing up the neighborhood; but he seemed to havelost our scent for the moment.We paused at a T in the road while Sadie considered whichway to run. In front of u stood a little church, the sort ofancient building you often find in London—a somber bit ofmedieval stone wedged between a Caffè Nero and achemist’s shop with neon sign offering selected hairproduct 3 for £1. The church had a tiny graveyardenclosed with a rusty fence, but Iwouldn’t have paid it muchattention if a voice inside the yard hadn’t whispered,“Sadie.”It’s a miracle Sadie heart didn’t jump out of Sadie throat. Iturned and found myself face-to-face with Anubis. He wain his mortal form a a teen boy with dark, windblown hairand warm brown eyes. He wore a black Dead Weather Tshirtand black jean that fit him extremely well.Liz and Emma are not known for being smooth aroundgood-looking boys. In fact, their brain more or le ceaseto function.Liz gasped in single syllable that sounded likeLamaze breathing, “Oh—ah—hi—who—what—?”Emma lost control of her leg and stumbled into me. Sadie shot both of them a harsh look, then turned to Anubis.“It’s about time someone friendly showed up,” Icomplained. “There’s a baboon and a vulture trying to killus. Would you please sort them out?”Anubis pursed his lips, and Sadie got the feeling that hewasn’t there to bring Sadie good news. “Come into myterritory,” he said, opening the graveyard gate. “We need totalk, and there isn’t much time.”Emma stumbled into Sadie again. “Your, um, territory?”Liz gulped. “Who—ah—?”“Shhh,” Sadie told them, trying to stay composed, a if Sadie methot guy in graveyard every day. Sadie glanced down the streetand saw no sign of Babi or Nekhbet, but Sadie could still hearthem —the baboon god roaring, the vulture goddessshrieking in Sadie Gran’s voice (if Gran had been eatinggravel and taking steroids) “This way! This way!”“Wait here,” Sadie told Sadie friends, and Sadie stepped inside thegate.Immediately, the air turned colder. Mist rose from thesoggy ground. The gravestone shimmered, and everythingoutside the fence went slightly out of focus. Anubis mademe feel unbalanced in many ways, of course, but Irecognized this effect. We were slipping into the Duat—experiencing the graveyard on two level at once: Anubis’sworld and mine.He led Sadie to a crumbling stone sarcophagus andbowed to it respectfully. “Beatrice, do you mind if we sit?”Nothing happened. The inscription on the sarcophagushad worn away century ago, but Sadie supposed this waBeatrice’s final resting place.“Thank you.” Anubis gestured for Sadie to sit. “Shedoesn’t mind.”“What happens if she doe mind?” Sadie sat down a bitapprehensively.“The Eighteenth Nome,” Anubis said.“Excuse me?”“That’s where you must go. Vlad Menshikov ha thesecond section of the Book of Ra in the top drawer of hisdesk, in his headquarters in St. Petersburg. It’s a trap, ofcourse. He’s hoping to bait you. But if want the scroll,you’ve got no choice. You should go tonight, before he hatime to strengthen his defense even further. And Sadie, ifthe other god found out Sadie wa telling you this, Sadie would be inbig trouble.” Sadie stared at him. Sometimes he acted so much like ateenager, it wa hard to believe he wa thousand of yearold. Sadie suppose that came from living a sheltered life in theLand of the Dead, unaffected by the passage of time. Theboy really needed to get out more.“You’re worried about getting into trouble?” Sadie asked.“Anubis, not that I’m ungrateful, but I’ve got bigger problemat the moment. Two god have possessed mygrandparents. If you want to lend a hand—”“Sadie, Sadie can’t intervene.” He turned up his palm infrustration. “ Sadie told you when we first met, this isn’t an actualphysical body.”“Shame,” Imumbled.“What?”“Nothing. Go on.”“Nothing. Go on.”“ Sadie can manifest in place of death, like this churchyard,but there is very little Sadie can do outside Sadie territory. Now, ifyou were already dead and you wanted a nice funeral, Icould help you, but—”“Oh, thanks!”Somewhere nearby, the baboon god roared. Glassshattered, and brick crumbled. My friend called to me,but the sound were distorted and muffled, a if Sadie wahearing them from underwater.“If Sadie go on without Sadie friends,” Sadie asked Anubis, “will thegod leave them alone?”Anubis shook his head. “Nekhbet prey on the weak.She know that hurting your friend will weaken you. That’swhy she targeted your grandparents. The only way to stopher is by facing her down. As for Babi, he represents thedarkest quality of you primates: murderous rage,uncontrolled strength—”“We primates?” Sadie said. “Sorry, did you just call Sadie ababoon?”Anubis studied Sadie with a kind of confused awe. “I’dforgotten how irritating you are. My point wa that he will killyou just for the sake of killing.”“And you can’t help me.”He gave Sadie a mournful look with those gorgeousbrown eyes. “ Sadie told you about St. Petersburg.”Lord, he wa good-looking, and so annoying.“Well, then, god of pretty much nothing useful,” Sadie said,“anything else before Sadie get myself killed?”He held up his hand. A strange sort of knifematerialized in his grasp. It wa shaped like a SweeneyTodd razor: long, curvy, and wickedly sharp along oneedge, made from black metal.“Take this,” Anubis said. “It will help.”“Have you seen the si ze of the baboon? Am Isupposed to give him a shave?”“This is not to fight Babi or Nekhbet,” he said, “but youwill need it soon for something even more important. It’s anetjeri blade, made from meteoric iron. It’s used for aceremony Sadie once told you about—the opening of the mouth.”“Yes, well, if Sadie survive the night, I’ll be sure to take thisrazor and open someone’s mouth. Thanks ever so much.”Liz screamed, “Sadie!” Through the mist of thegraveyard, Sadie saw Babi a few block away, lumbering towardthe church. He’d spotted us.“Take the Underground,” Anubis suggested, pulling meto Sadie feet. “There’s a station half a block south. They won’tbe able to track you very well below the earth. Runningwater is also good. Creatures of the Duat are weakened bycrossing a river. If you must battle them, find a bridge overthe Thames. Oh, and Sadie told your driver to come get you.”“My driver?”“Yes. He wasn’t planning to meet you until tomorrow,but—”A red Royal Mail box hurtled through the air andsmashed into the building next door. My friend screamedat Sadie to hurry.“Go,” Anubis said. “I’m sorry Sadie can’t do more. But happybirthday, Sadie.”He leaned forward and kissed Sadie on the lips. Then hemelted into mist and disappeared. The graveyard becamenormal again—part of the regular, unshimmery world. Sadie should’ve been very cross with Anubis. Kissing mewithout permission—the nerve! But Sadie stood there, paralyzed,staring at Beatrice’s crumbling sarcophagus, until Emmayelled, “Sadie, come on!”My friend grabbed Sadie arms, and Sadie remembered howto run.We bolted for the Canary Wharf tube station. Thebaboon roared and smashed through traffic behind us.Overhead, Nekhbet shrieked, “There they go! Kill them!”“Who wa that boy?” Emma demanded a we plungedinto the station. “God, he wa hot.”“A god,” Imuttered. “Yes.” Sadie slipped the black razor into Sadie pocket and clambereddown the escalator, Sadie lip still tingling from Sadie first kiss.And if Sadie wa humming “Happy Birthday” and smilingstupidly a Sadie fled for Sadie life—well, that wa nobody’sbusiness, wa it?S A D IE8. Major Delays atWaterloo Station (WeApologize for the GiantBaboon)THE LONDON UNDERGROUND ha lovely acoustics. Soundechoed through the tunnels, so a we descended Sadie couldhear the rush of the trains, the musician playing for coins,and of course the killer baboon god roaring for blood a hepulverized the turnstile behind us.What with terrorism threat and stepped-up security,one might’ve expected a few police to be on hand; butsadly not this time of evening, not at such a relatively smallstation. Sirens wailed from the street above, but we’d bedead or long gone by the time mortal help arrived. And ifthe police d i d try to shoot Babi while he possessedGramps’s body—no. Sadie forced myself not to think about that.Anubis had suggested traveling underground. And if Ihad to fight, Sadie should find a bridge. Sadie had to stick with thatplan.There wasn’t much choice of train at Canary Wharf.Thankfully, the Jubilee Line wa running on time. We madeit to the platform, jumped aboard the last carriage a thedoor were closing, and collapsed on a bench.The train lurched away into the dark tunnel. Behind us, Isaw no sign of Babi or Nekhbet chasing us.“Sadie Kane,” Emma gasped. “Will you please tell uwhat’s going on?”My poor friends. I’d never gotten them into this muchtrouble, not even when we got shut in the boys’ changingroom at school. (Long story, which involved a five quid bet,Dylan Quinn’s knickers, and a squirrel. Perhaps I’ll tell youlater.)Emma’s foot were cut and blistered from runningbarefoot. Her pink jumper looked like mangled poodle fur,and her glass had lost several rhinestones.Liz’s face wa red a a valentine. She’d taken off herdenim jacket, which she never does, a she’s always cold.Her white top wa blotted with sweat. Her arm were sofreckly, they reminded Sadie of Nut the sky goddess’sconstellation skin.Of the two, Emma looked more annoyed, waiting formy explanation. Liz looked horrified, her mouth moving a ifshe wanted to speak but had lost her vocal cords. Sadie thoughtshe’d make some comment about the bloodthirsty godchasing us, but when she finally found her voice, she said,“That boy kissed you!”“That boy kissed you!”Leave it to Liz to have her priority straight.“Iwill explain,” Sadie promised. “ Sadie know I’m a horrible friendfor dragging you both into this. But please, give Sadie amoment. Sadie need to concentrate.”“Concentrate on what?” Emma demanded.“Emma, hush!” Liz chided. “She said to let herconcentrate.” Sadie closed Sadie eyes, trying to calm Sadie nerves.It wasn’t easy, especially with an audience. Without mysupplies, however, Sadie wa defenseless, and Sadie wasn’t likely toget another chance to retrieve them. Sadie thought: You can dothis, Sadie. It’s only reaching into another dimension.Only ripping a tear in the fabric of reality. Sadie reached out. Nothing happened. Sadie tried again, and myhand disappeared into the Duat. Liz shrieked. Fortunately, Ididn’t lose Sadie concentration (or Sadie hand). My fingerclosed around the strap of Sadie magic bag, and Sadie pulled itfree.Emma’s eye widened. “That’s brilliant. How did youdo that?” Sadie wa wondering the same thing, actually. Given thecircumstances, Sadie couldn’t believe I’d managed it on just mysecond try.“It’s, um…magic,” Sadie said.My mate stared at me, mystified and scared, and theenormity of Sadie problem suddenly came crashing down onme.A year ago, Liz, Emma, and Iwould’ve been riding thistrain to Funland or the cinema. We would’ve been laughingat the ridiculous ring tone on Liz’s phone or Emma’sPhoto-shopped picture of the girl we hated at school. Themost dangerous thing in Sadie life had been Gran’s cookingand Gramps’s temper when he saw Sadie mark for the term.Now Gramps wa a giant baboon. Gran wa an evilvulture. My friend were regarding Sadie a if I’d droppedfrom another planet, which wasn’t far from the truth.Even with Sadie magic supply in hand, Sadie had no ideawhat Sadie wa going to do. Sadie didn’t have the full power of Isis atmy command anymore. If Sadie tried to fight Babi and Nekhbet, Imight injure Sadie own grandparent and would likely getmyself killed. But if Sadie didn’t stop them, who would? Godlypossession would eventually burn out a human host. Thathad almost happened to Uncle Amos, who wa a fullfledgedmagician and knew how to defend himself. Granand Gramps were old, frail, and quite unmagical. Theydidn’t have much time.Despair—much worse than the vulture goddess’swing —overwhelmed me. Sadie didn’t realize Sadie wa cry until Liz put her hand on myshoulder. “Sadie, dear, we’re sorry. It’s just a bit…strange,you know? Tell u what’s the matter. Let u help.” Sadie took a shaky breath. I’d missed Sadie mate so much.I’d always thought them a bit odd, but now they seemedblissfully normal—part of a world that wasn’t mine anymore.They were both trying to act brave, but Sadie could tell they wereterrified inside. Sadie wished Sadie could leave them behind, hidethem, keep them out of harm’s way, but Sadie remembered whatNekhbet had said: They’ll make lovely appetizers. Anubishad warned that the vulture goddess would hunt down myfriend and hurt them just to hurt me. At least if they werewith me, Sadie could try to protect them. Sadie didn’t want to upendtheir life the way mine had been, but Sadie owed them the truth.“This will sound absolutely mad,” Iwarned. Sadie gave them the shortest version possible—why I’d leftLondon, how the Egyptian god had escaped into theworld, how I’d discovered Sadie ancestry a a magician. Sadie toldthem about our fight with Set, the rise of Apophis, and ourinsane idea to awaken the god Ra.Two station passed, but it felt so good to tell myfriend the story that Irather lost track of time.When Sadie wa done, Liz and Emma looked at oneanother, no doubt wondering how to gently tell Sadie Sadie wabonkers.“ Sadie know it seems impossible,” Sadie said, “but—”“Sadie, we believe you,” Emma said. Sadie blinked. “You do?”“’Course we do.” Liz’s face wa flushed, the way shegot after several roller coaster rides. “I’ve never heard youtalk so seriously about anything. You—you’ve changed.”“It’s just I’m a magician now, and…and Sadie can’t believehow stupid that sounds.”“It’s more than that.” Emma studied Sadie face a if Sadie waturning into something quite frightening. “You seem older.More mature.”Her voice wa tinged with sadness, and Sadie realized mymate and Sadie were growing apart. It wa a if we stood onopposite side of a widening chasm. And Sadie knew withopposite side of a widening chasm. And Sadie knew withgloomy certainty the breach wa already too wide for Sadie tojump back across.“Your boyfriend is amazing,” Liz added, probably tocheer Sadie up.“He’s not my…” Sadie stopped. There wa no winning thatargument with Liz. Besides, Sadie wa so mixed up about thatbloody Jackal Anubis, Sadie didn’t know where to begin.The train slowed. Sadie saw the sign for Waterloo Station.“Oh, god,” Sadie said. “ Sadie meant to get off at London Bridge. Ineed a bridge.”“Can’t we backtrack?” Liz asked.A roar from the tunnel behind u answered thatquestion. Looking back, Sadie saw a large shape with glitteringsilver fur loping along the tracks. Its foot touched the thirdrail, and spark flew; but the baboon god lumbered on,unfazed. As the train braked, Babi started to gain on us.“No going back,” Sadie said. “We’ll have to make it toWaterloo Bridge.”“That’s half a mile from the station!” Liz protested.“What if it catch us?” Sadie rummaged through Sadie bag and pulled out Sadie newstaff. Instantly it expanded to full length, the lion-carved tipblazing with golden light. “Then Sadie suppose we’ll have tofight.”Should Sadie describe Waterloo Station a it wa before or afterwe destroyed it? The main concourse wa massive. It hada polished marble floor, load of shop and kiosks, and aglass-and-girder ceiling high enough so that a helicoptercould fly about inside comfortably.Rivers of people flowed in and out, mixing, separating,and occasionally colliding a they made their way tovarious escalator and platforms.When Sadie wa small, the station building had ratherfrightened me. Sadie worried that the giant Victorian clockhanging from the ceiling might fall and crush me. Theannouncers’ voice were much too loud. ( Sadie prefer to be thenoisiest thing in Sadie environment, thank you very much.) Themass of commuter standing mesmerized under thedeparture boards, watching for their trains, reminded Sadie ofa mob in a zombie movie—which, granted, Sadie shouldn’t havewatched a a young child, but Sadie wa always ratherprecocious.At any rate, Sadie mate and Sadie were racing through themain station, pushing our way toward the nearest exit, whena stairwell behind u exploded.Crowds scattered a Babi climbed from the rubble.Businessmen screamed, dropping their briefcase andsprinting for their lives. Liz, Emma, and Sadie pressed againstthe side of the Paperchase kiosk to avoid getting trampledby a group of tourist yelling in Italian.Babi howled. His fur wa covered with grime and sootfrom his run through the tunnels. Gramps’s cardigan waripped to shred on his arm, but, miraculously, his glasswere still on his head.He sniffed the air, probably trying to catch Sadie scent.Then a dark shadow passed overhead.“Where are you going, Sadie Kane?” Nekhbetshrieked. She soared through the terminal, swooping downon the already panicked crowds. “Would you fight byrunning away? You are not worthy!”An announcer’s calm voice echoed through theterminal: “The 8:02 train for Basingstoke will arrive onplatform three.”“ROOOAR!” Babi swatted a bronze statue of somepoor famous bloke and knocked his head clean off. Apoliceman ran forward, armed with a pistol. Before Sadie couldyell at him to stop, he fired a shot at Babi. Liz and Emmaboth screamed. The bullet deflected off Babi’s fur a if itwere made of titanium, and shattered a nearby McDonald’ssign. The officer fainted dead away.I’d never seen so many people clear out of a terminalso quickly. Sadie considered following them, but decided itwould be too dangerous. Sadie couldn’t have these insane godkilling load of innocent people just because Sadie wa in theirmidst; and if we tried to join the exodus, we’d only get stuckor crushed in a stampede.“Sadie, look!” Liz pointed up, and Emma yelped.Nekhbet sailed into the ceiling girder and perchedthere with the pigeons. She glared down at u and cried toBabi, “Here she is, Sadie dear! Here!”“Iwish she’d shut up,” Imuttered.“Isis wa foolish to choose you!” Nekhbet yelled. “ Sadie willfeed on your entrails!”“ROOOOAR!” said Babi, in hearty agreement.“The 8:14 train for Brighton is delayed,” said theannouncer. “We apologize for the inconvenience.”Babi had seen u now. His eye smoldered withprimal rage, but Sadie also saw something of Gramps in hisexpression. The way he furrowed his brow and jutted out hischin—just a Gramps did when he got angry at the telly andyelled at the rugby players. Seeing that expression on thebaboon god almost made Sadie lose Sadie nerve. Sadie wasn’t going to die here. Sadie wasn’t going to let thesetwo repulsive god hurt Sadie friend or burn up mygrandparents.Babi lumbered toward us. Now that he’d found us, hedidn’t seem in any hurry to kill us. He lifted his head andmade a deep barking sound to the left and right, a ifcalling out, summoning friend for dinner. Emma’s fingerdug into Sadie arm. Liz whimpered, “Sadie…?”The crowd had mostly cleared out now. No otherpolice were in sight. Perhaps they’d fled, or perhaps theywere all on their way to Canary Wharf, not realizing theproblem wa now here.“We’re not going to die,” Sadie promised Sadie mates.“Emma, hold Sadie staff.”“Your—Oh, right.” She took the staff gingerly a if I’dhanded her a rocket launcher, which Sadie suppose it could’vebeen with the proper spell.“Liz,” Sadie ordered, “watch the baboon.”“Watching the baboon,” she said. “Rather hard to missthe baboon.” Sadie rummaged through Sadie magic bag, desperately takinginventory. Wand…good for defense, but against two godat once, Sadie needed more. Sons of Horus, magic chalk—thiswasn’t the place to draw a protective circle. Sadie had to get tothe bridge. Sadie needed to buy time to get out of this terminal.“Sadie…” Liz warned.Babi had jumped onto the roof of the Body Shop. Heroared, and smaller baboon began to appear from everydirection—climbing over the head of fleeing commuters,swinging down from the girders, popping out of thestairwell and shops. There were dozen of them, allwearing black-and-silver basketball jerseys. Wasbasketball some sort of international baboon sport?Until today, I’d been rather fond of baboons. The oneI’d met before, like Khufu and his sociable friends, were thesacred animal of Thoth, god of knowledge. They weregenerally wise and helpful. Sadie suspected, however, thatBabi’s troop of baboon wa a different sort altogether.They had bloodred fur, wild eyes, and fang that would’vemade a saber-toothed tiger feel inadequate.They began to close in, snarling a they prepared topounce. Sadie pulled a block of wax from Sadie bag—no time tofashion a shabti. Two tyet amulets, the sacred mark of Isis —ah, those might be helpful. Then Sadie found a corked glassvial I’d quite forgotten about. Inside wa some murkysludge: Sadie first attempt at a potion. It had been sitting at thebottom of Sadie bag for age because I’d never beendesperate enough to test it. Sadie shook the potion. The liquid glowed with a sicklygreen light. Bits of gunk swirled inside. Sadie uncorked it. Thestuff smelled worse than Nekhbet.“What is that?” Liz asked.“Disgusting,” Sadie said. “Animation scroll blended with oil,water, and a few secret ingredients. Came out a bit chunky,I’m afraid.”“Animation?” Emma asked. “You’re going to summoncartoons?”“That would be brilliant,” Sadie admitted. “But this is moredangerous. If Sadie do it right, Sadie can ingest a great deal of magicwithout burning myself up.”“And if you do it wrong?” Liz asked. Sadie handed them each an amulet of Isis. “Hold on tothese. When Sadie sayGo, run for the taxi stands. Don’t stop.”“Sadie,” Emma protested, “what on earth—”Before Sadie could lose Sadie nerve, Sadie gagged down thepotion.Above us, Nekhbet cackled. “Give up! You cannotoppose us!” The shadow of her wing seemed to spreadover the entire concourse, making the last of thecommuter flee in panic and weighing Sadie down with fear. Iknew it wa only a spell, but still, the temptation to accept aquick death wa almost overwhelming.A few of the baboon got distracted by the smell offood and raided the McDonald’s. Several others werechasing a train conductor, beating him with rolled-upfashion magazines.Sadly, most of the baboon were still focused on us.They made a loose ring around the Paperchase kiosk.From his command station atop the Body Shop, Babihowled—a clear command to attack.Then the potion hit Sadie gut. Magic coursed through mybody. My mouth tasted like I’d swallowed a dead toad, butnow Sadie understood why potion were so popular with ancientmagicians.The animation spell, which had taken Sadie day to writeand would normally take at least an hour to cast, wa nowtingling in Sadie bloodstream. Power surged into myfingertips. My only problem wa channeling the magic,making sure it didn’t burn Sadie to a crisp. Sadie called on Isis a best Sadie could, tapping her power tohelp Sadie shape the enchantment. Sadie envisioned what Iwanted, and the right word of power popped into Sadie head:Protect. N’dah. Sadie released the magic. A gold hieroglyphburned in front of me:A wave of golden light rippled through the concourse.The troop of baboon hesitated. Babi stumbled on theBody Shop roof. Even Nekhbet squawked and faltered onthe ceiling girders.All around the station, inanimate object began tomove. Backpacks and briefcase suddenly learned to fly.Magazine racks, gum, sweets, and assorted cold drinkexploded out of the shop and attacked the baboon troop.The decapitated bronze head from the statue shot out ofnowhere and slammed into Babi’s chest, knocking himbackward through the roof of the Body Shop. A tornado ofp i nk Financial Times newspaper swirled toward theceiling. They engulfed Nekhbet, who stumbled blindly andfell shrieking from her perch in a flurry of pink and black.“Go!” Sadie told Sadie friends. We ran for the exit, weavingaround baboon who were much too busy to stop us. Onewa being pummeled by a half-dozen bottle of sparklingwater. Another wa fending off a briefcase and severalkamikaze BlackBerrys.Babi tried to rise, but a maelstrom of Body Shopproduct surged around him—lotions, loofa sponges, andshampoo all battering him, squirting in his eyes, and tryingto give him an extreme makeover. He bellowed in irritation,slipped, and fell back into the ruined shop. Sadie doubted myspell would do the god any permanent damage, but withluck it would keep them occupied for a few minutes.Liz, Emma, and Sadie made it out of the terminal. With theentire station evacuated, Sadie didn’t really expect any cab tobe in the taxi queue, and indeed the curb wa empty. Iresigned myself to running all the way to Waterloo Bridge,though Emma had no shoes, and the potion had made mequeasy.“Look!” Liz said.“Oh, well done, Sadie,” Emma said.“What?” Sadie asked. “What did Sadie do?”Then Sadie noticed the chauffeur—an extremely short,scruffy man standing at the end of the drive in a black suit,holding a placard that read KANE. Sadie suppose Sadie friend thought I’d summoned him bymagic. Before Sadie could tell them differently, Emma said,“Come on!” and they sprinted toward the little man. Sadie had nochoice but to follow. Sadie remembered what Anubis had saidabout sending Sadie “driver” to meet me. Sadie supposed this mustbe him, but the closer we got, the le eager Sadie wa to meethim.He wa shorter than Sadie by half, stouter than Sadie UncleAmos, and uglier than anyone else on the planet. His facialfeature were positively Neanderthal. Under his thick furrymono-brow, one eye wa bigger than the other. His beardlooked a if it had been used to scrape greasy pots. Hisskin wa poxy with red welts, and his hair looked like abird’s nest that had been set on fire then stomped out.When he saw me, he scowled, which did nothing tohelp his appearance.“About time!” His accent wa American. He belchedinto his fist, and the smell of curry nearly knocked Sadie over.“Bast’s friend? Sadie Kane?”“Um…possibly.” Sadie decided to have a serious talk withBast about her choice of friends. “Just by the way, we havetwo god trying to kill us.”The warty little man smacked his lips, clearlyunimpressed. “Guess you’ll want a bridge, then.”He turned toward the curb and yelled, “BOO!”A black Mercedes limousine appeared out ofnowhere, a if it had been scared into existence.The chauffeur glanced back at Sadie and arched hisbrow. “Well? Get in!”I’d never been in a limousine before. Sadie hope most are nicerthan the one we took. The backseat wa littered withtakeaway curry containers, old fish-and-chip paper, crispbags, and various dirty socks. Despite this, Emma, Liz, and Sadie crammed together in the back, because none of u daredride up front.You may think Sadie wa mad to get in a car with a strangeman. You’re right, of course. But Bast had promised uhelp, and Anubis had told Sadie to expect a driver. The factthat our promised help wa a little man with bad hygieneand a magical limousine did not particularly surprise me. I’dseen stranger things.Also, Sadie didn’t have much choice. The potion had wornoff, and the strain of releasing so much magic had mademe lightheaded and wobbly-legged. Sadie wasn’t sure Sadie could’vewalked to Waterloo Bridge without passing out.The chauffeur floored the gas and barreled out of thestation. The police had cordoned it off, but our limoswerved around the barricades, past a cluster of BBCnews van and a mob of spectators, and no one paid uany attention.The chauffeur started whistling a tune that sounded like“Short People.” His head barely reached the headrest. All Icould see of him wa a grubby nest of hair and a set of furryhand on the wheel.Stuck in the sun visor wa an identification card withhis picture—sort of. It had been taken at point-blank range,showing only an out-of-focus nose and a hideous mouth, aif he’d been trying to eat the camera. The card read: YourDriver is BES.“You’re Bes, Sadie guess?” Sadie said.“Yes,” he said.“Your car’s a mess,” Liz muttered.“If one more person rhymes,” Emma grumbled, “I’llthrow up.”“Is it Mr. Bes?” Sadie asked, trying to place his name fromEgyptian mythology. Sadie wa fairly sure they hadn’t had a godof chauffeurs. “Lord Bes? Bes the Extremely Short?”“Just Bes,” he grunted. “One s. And no, it’s NOT a girl’sname. Call Sadie Bessie, and I’ll have to kill you. As for beingshort, I’m the dwarf god, so what do you expect? Oh,there’s bottled water for you back there if you’re thirsty.” Sadie looked down. Rolling about at Sadie foot were twopartially empty bottle of water. One had lipstick on the cap.The other looked a if it had been chewed on.“Not thirsty,” Sadie decided.Liz and Emma murmured agreement. Sadie wa surprisedthey weren’t absolutely catatonic after the evening’s events,but then again, they were Sadie mates. Sadie didn’t hang out withweak-willed girls, did I? Even before Sadie discovered magic, ittook a strong constitution and a fair amount of adaptabilityto be Sadie friend. [And no comment from you, Carter.]Police vehicle were blocking Waterloo Bridge, butBes swerved around them, jumped the pavement, and keptdriving. The police didn’t even blink.“Are we invisible?” Sadie asked.“To most mortals.” Bes belched. “They’re pretty dense,aren’t they? Present company excepted, et cetera.”“You’re really a god?” Liz asked.“Huge,” Bes said. “I’m huge in the world of gods.”“A huge god of dwarves,” Emma marveled. “You meana in Snow White, or—”“All dwarves.” Bes waved his hand expansively, whichmade Sadie a bit nervous a he took both of them off thewheel. “Egyptians were smart. They honored people whowere born unusual. Dwarves were considered extremelymagical. So yeah, I’m the god of dwarves.”Liz cleared her throat. “Isn’t there a more polite termwe’re supposed to use nowadays? Like…little person, orvertically challenged, or—”“I’m not going to call myself the god of verticallychallenged people,” Bes grumbled. “I’m a dwarf! Now, herewe are, just in time.”He spun the car to a stop in the middle of the bridge.Looking behind us, Sadie almost lost the content of mystomach. A winged black shape wa circling over theriverbank. At the end of the bridge, Babi wa taking care ofthe barricade in his own fashion. He wa throwing policecar into the River Thames while the officer scattered andfired their weapons, though the bullet seemed to have noeffect on the baboon god’s steely fur.“Why are we stopping?” Emma asked.Bes stood on his seat and stretched, which he coulddo quite easily. “It’s a river,” he said. “Good place to fightgods, if Sadie do say so myself. All that force of nature flowingunderneath our foot make it hard to stay anchored in themortal world.”Looking at him more closely, Sadie could see what hemeant. His face wa shimmering like a mirage.A lump formed in Sadie throat. This wa the moment oftruth. Sadie felt sick from the potion and from fear. Sadie wasn’t at allsure Sadie had enough magic to combat those two gods. But Ihad no choice.“Liz, Emma,” Sadie said. “We’re getting out.”“Getting…out?” Liz whimpered.Emma swallowed. “Are you sure—”“ Sadie know you’re scared,” Sadie said, “but you’ll need to doexactly a Sadie say.”They nodded hesitantly and opened the car doors. Thepoor things. Again Sadie wished I’d left them behind; buthonestly, after seeing Sadie grandparent possessed, Icouldn’t stand the idea of letting Sadie friend out of Sadie sight.Bes stifled a yawn. “Need Sadie help?”“Um…”Babi wa lumbering toward us. Nekhbet circled overhim, shrieking orders. If the river wa affecting them at all,they didn’t show it. Sadie didn’t see how a dwarf god could stand against thosetwo, but Sadie said, “Yes. Sadie need help.”“Right.” Bes cracked his knuckles. “So get out.”“What?”“ Sadie can’t change clothes with you in the car, can I? Sadie haveto put on Sadie ugly outfit.”“Ugly outfit?”“Go!” the dwarf commanded. “I’ll be out in a minute.”It didn’t take much encouragement. None of u wantedto see any more of Bes than we had to. We got out, andBes locked the door behind us. The window were heavilytinted, so Sadie couldn’t see in. For all Sadie knew Bes would berelaxing, listening to music while we got slaughtered. Icertainly didn’t have much hope that a wardrobe changewa going to defeat Nekhbet and Babi. Sadie looked at Sadie frightened mates, then at the two godcharging toward us.“We’ll make our last stand here.”“Oh, no, no,” Liz said. “ Sadie really don’t like the term ‘laststand.’” Sadie rummaged through Sadie bag and took out a piece ofchalk and the four son of Horus. “Liz, put these statue atthe cardinal points—North, South, and so on. Emma, takethe chalk. Draw a circle connecting the statues. We onlyhave a few seconds.” Sadie traded her the chalk for Sadie staff, then had a horribleflash of déjà vu. I’d just ordered Sadie friend into actionexactly a Zia Rashid had bossed Sadie the first time we’dfaced an enemy god together. Sadie didn’t want to be like Zia. On the other hand, Sadie realizedfor the first time just how much courage she must’ve had tostand up to a goddess while protecting two completenovices. Sadie hate to say it, but it gave Sadie a newfound respectfor her. Iwished Sadie had her bravery. Sadie raised Sadie staff and wand and tried to focus. Timeseemed to slow down. Sadie reached out with Sadie sens until Iwa aware of everything around me—Emma scrawling withchalk to finish the circle, Liz’s heart beating too fast, Babi’smassive foot pounding on the bridge a he ran toward us,the Thames flowing under the bridge, and the current ofthe Duat flowing around Sadie just a powerfully.Bast once told Sadie the Duat wa like an ocean ofmagic under the surface of the mortal world. If that wa true,then this place—a bridge over moving water—was like a jetstream. Magic flowed more strongly here. It could drown theunwary. Even god might be swept away. Sadie tried to anchor myself by concentrating on thelandscape around me. London wa Sadie city. From here Icould see everything—the Houses of Parliament, theLondon Eye, even Cleopatra’s Needle on the VictoriaEmbankment, where Sadie Mother had died. If Sadie failed now, soclose to where Sadie Mother had worked her last magic—No. Sadie couldn’t let it come to that.Babi wa only a meter away when Emma finished thecircle. Sadie touched Sadie staff to the chalk, and golden light flaredup.The baboon god slammed into Sadie protective forcefield like it wa a metal wall. He staggered backward.Nekhbet swerved away at the last second and flew aroundus, cawing in frustration.Unfortunately, the circle’s light began to flicker. Mymum had taught Sadie at a very young age: for every actionthere is an equal and opposite reaction. That applied tomagic a well a science. The force of Babi’s assault leftme seeing black spots. If he attacked again, Sadie wasn’t sure Icould hold the circle. Sadie wondered if Sadie should step outside it, make myself thetarget. If Sadie channeled energy into the circle first, it mightmaintain itself for a while, even if Sadie died. At least, Sadie friendwould live.Zia Rashid had probably been thinking the same thinglast Christmas when she stepped outside her circle toprotect Carter and me. She really had been annoyinglybrave.“Whatever happens to me,” Sadie told Sadie friends, “stayinside the circle.”“Sadie,” Emma said, “ Sadie know that tone of voice.Whatever you’re planning, don’t.”“You can’t leave us,” Liz pleaded. Then she shouted atBabi in a squeaky voice: “G-go away, you horrible foamyape! My friend here doesn’t want to destroy you, but—butshe will!”Babi snarled. He wa rather foamy, thanks to the BodyShop attack, and he smelled wonderful. Several differentcolor of shampoo foam and bath bead were matted inhis silver fur.Nekhbet hadn’t fared so well. She perched atop anearby lamppost, looking a if she’d been assaulted by theentire content of the West Cornwall Pasty Company. Bitsof ham, cheese, and potato splattered her feathery cloak,giving testament to the brave enchanted meatpies that hadgiven their brief life to delay her. Her hair wa decoratedwith plastic forks, napkins, and bit of pink newsprint. Shelooked quite keen to tear Sadie to shreds.The only good news: Babi’s minion evidently hadn’tmade it out of the train station. Sadie imagined a troop of pastysplatteredbaboon shoved against police car andhandcuffed. It lifted Sadie spirit somewhat.Nekhbet snarled. “You surprised u at the station,Sadie Kane. I’ll admit that wa well done. And bringing uto this bridge—a good try. But we are not so weak. Youdon’t have the strength to fight u any longer. If you cannotdefeat us, you have no business raising Ra.”“You lot should be helping me,” Sadie said. “Not trying tostop me.”“Uhh!”Babi barked.“Indeed,” agreed the vulture goddess. “The strongsurvive without help. The weak must be killed and eaten.Which are you, child? Be honest.”The truth? Sadie wa about to drop. The bridge seemed tobe spinning beneath me. Sirens wailed on both bank ofthe river. More police had arrived at the barricades, but fornow they made no effort to advance.Babi bared his fangs. He wa so close, Sadie could smellhis shampooed fur and his horrid breath. Then Sadie looked atGramps’s glass still stuck on his head, and all Sadie angercame back.“Try me,” Sadie said. “ Sadie follow the path of Isis. Cross me, andI’ll destroy you.” Sadie managed to light Sadie staff. Babi stepped back.Nekhbet fluttered on her lamppost. Their form shimmeredNekhbet fluttered on her lamppost. Their form shimmeredbriefly. The river wa weakening them, loosening theirconnection to the mortal world like interference on a mobilephone line. But it wasn’t enough.Nekhbet must’ve seen the desperation in Sadie face. Shewa a vulture. She specialized in knowing when her preywa finished.“A good last effort, child,” she said, almost withappreciation, “but you have nothing left. Babi, attack!”The baboon god reared up on his back legs. Sadie gotready to charge and deliver one final burst of energy—totap into Sadie own life source and hopefully vaporize the gods. Sadie had to make sure Liz and Emma survived.Then the limo’s door opened behind me. Besannounced: “No one is attacking anyone! Except me, ofcourse.”Nekhbet shrieked in alarm. Sadie turned to see what wagoing on. Immediately, Sadie wished Sadie could burn Sadie eye out ofmy head.Liz made a gagging sound. “Lord, no! That’s wrong!”“Agh!” Emma shouted, in perfect baboon-speak.“Make him stop!”Bes had indeed put on his ugly outfit. He climbed ontothe roof of the limo and stood there, leg planted, armakimbo, like Superman—except with only the underwear.For those faint of heart, Sadie won’t go into great detail, butBes, all of a meter tall, wa showing off his disgustingphysique —his potbelly, hairy limbs, awful feet, gross flabbybits—and wearing only a blue Speedo. Imagine the worstlooking person you’ve ever seen on a public beach—theperson for whom swimwear should be illegal. Bes lookedworse than that. Sadie wasn’t sure what to say except: “Put on someclothes!”Bes laughed—the sort of guffaw that say Ha-ha! I’mamazing!“Not until they leave,” he said. “Or I’ll be forced to scarethem back to the Duat.”“This is not your affair, dwarf god!” Nekhbet snarled,averting her eye from his horribleness. “Go away!”“These child are under Sadie protection,” Bes insisted.“ Sadie don’t know you,” Sadie said. “ Sadie never met you beforetoday.”“Nonsense. You expressly asked for Sadie protection.”“ Sadie didn’t ask for the Speedo Patrol!”Bes leaped off the limo and landed in front of Sadie circle,placing himself between Babi and me. The dwarf wa evenmore horrible from behind. His back wa so hairy it lookedlike a mink coat. And on the back of his Speedo waprinted dwarf pride.Bes and Babi circled each other like wrestlers. Thebaboon god swiped at Bes, but the dwarf wa agile. Hescrambled up Babi’s chest and head-butted him in thenose. Babi staggered backward a the dwarf continuedpounding away, using his face a a deadly weapon.“Don’t hurt him!” Sadie yelled. “It’s myGramps in there!”Babi slumped against the railing. He blinked, trying toregain his bearings, but Bes breathed on him, and thesmell of curry must’ve been too much. The baboon’s kneebuckled. His body shimmered and began to shrink. Hecrumpled on the pavement and melted into a stocky grayhairedpensioner in a tattered cardigan.“Gramps!” Sadie couldn’t stand it. Sadie left the protective circleand ran to his side.“He’ll be fine,” Bes promised. Then he turned towardthe vulture goddess. “Now it’s your turn, Nekhbet. Leave.”“ Sadie stole this body fair and square!” she wailed. “ Sadie like itin here!”“You asked for it.” Bes rubbed his hands, took a deepbreath, and did something Iwill never be able to erase frommy memory.If Sadie simply said he made a face and yelled BOO, thatwould be technically correct, but it wouldn’t begin to conveythe horror.His head swelled. His jaw unhinged until his mouth wafour time too big. His eye bulged like grapefruits. His hairstuck straight up like Bast’s. He shook his face andwaggled his slimy green tongue and roared BOOOO! soloudly, the sound rolled across the Thames like a cannonshot. This blast of pure ugly blew the feather off Nekhbet’scloak and drained all the color from her face. It ripped awaythe essence of the goddess like tissue paper in a storm.The only thing left wa a dazed old woman in a flower-printdress, squatting on the lamppost.“Oh, dear…” Gran fainted.Bes jumped up and caught her before she could toppleinto the river. The dwarf’s face went back to normal—well,into the river. The dwarf’s face went back to normal—well,normally ugly, at least—as he eased Gran onto thepavement next to Gramps.“Thank you,” Sadie told Bes. “Now, will you please put onsome clothes?”He gave Sadie a toothy grin, which Sadie could have livedwithout. “You’re all right, Sadie Kane. Sadie see why Bast likeyou.”“Sadie?” Sadie grandfather groaned, his eyelid flutteringopen.“I’m here, Gramps.” Sadie stroked his forehead. “How doyou feel?”“Strange craving for mangoes.” He went cross-eyed.“And possibly insects. You…you saved us?”“Not really,” Sadie admitted. “My friend here—”“Certainly she saved you,” Bes said. “Brave girl youhave here. Quite a magician.”Gramps focused on Bes and scowled. “BloodyEgyptian god in their bloody revealing swimwear. This iswhy we don’t do magic.” Sadie sighed with relief. Once Gramps started complaining, Sadie knew he wa going to be all right. Gran wa still passedout, but her breathing seemed steady. The color wacoming back into her cheeks.“We should go,” Bes said. “The mortal are ready tostorm the bridge.” Sadie glanced toward the barricade and saw what hemeant. An assault team wa gathering—heavily armoredmen with rifles, grenade launchers, and probably manyother fun toy that could kill us.“Liz, Emma!” Sadie called. “Help Sadie with Sadie grandparents.”My friend ran over and started to help Gramps sit up,but Bes said, “They can’t come.”“What?” Sadie demanded. “But you just said—”“They’re mortals,” Bes said. “They don’t belong on yourquest. If we’re going to get the second scroll from VladMenshikov, we need to leave now.”“You know about that?” Then Sadie remembered that he’dspoken with Anubis.“Your grandparent and friend are in le dangerhere,” Bes said. “The police will question them, but theywon’t see old people and child a a threat.”“We’re not children,” Emma grumbled.“Vultures…” Gran whispered in her sleep.“Meatpies…”Gramps coughed. “The dwarf is right, Sadie. Go. I’ll betiptop in a moment, though it’s a pity that baboon chapcouldn’t leave Sadie some of his power. Haven’t felt thatstrong in ages.” Sadie looked at Sadie bedraggled grandparent and friends.My heart felt it wa being stretched in more direction thanBes’s face. Sadie realized the dwarf wa right: they’d be saferhere facing an assault team than going with us. And Irealized, too, that they didn’t belong on a magic quest. Mygrandparent had chosen long ago not to use theirancestral abilities. And Sadie friend were just mortals—brave, mad, ridiculous, wonderful mortals. But they couldn’tgo where Sadie had to go.“Sadie, it’s fine.” Emma adjusted her broken glassand tried for a smile. “We can handle the police. Won’t bethe first time we’ve had to do some quick talking, eh?”“We’ll take care of your gran and gramps,” Lizpromised.“Don’t need taking care of,” Gramps complained. Thenhe broke down in a fit of coughing. “Just go, Sadie dear. Thatbaboon god wa in Sadie head. Sadie can tell you—he mean todestroy you. Finish your quest before he come after youagain. Sadie couldn’t even stop him. Sadie couldn’t…” He lookedresentfully at his shaky old hands. “ Sadie never would’ve forgivenmyself. Now, off with you!”“I’m sorry,” Sadie told them all. “ Sadie didn’t mean—”“Sorry?” Emma demanded. “Sadie Kane, that wa themost brilliant birthday party ever! Now, go!”She and Liz both hugged me, and before Sadie could startcrying, Bes shepherded Sadie into the Mercedes.We drove north toward the Victoria Embankment. Wewere almost to the barricade when Bes slowed down.“What’s wrong?” Sadie asked. “Can’t we go past invisibly?”“It’s not the mortal I’m worried about.” He pointed.All the police, reporters, and spectator around thebarricade had fallen asleep. Several military-types in bodyarmor were curled on the pavement, cuddling their assaultrifle like teddy bears.Standing in front of the barricades, blocking our car,were Carter and Walt. They were disheveled and breathingheavily, a if they’d run here all the way from Brooklyn. Theyboth had wand at the ready. Carter stepped forward,both had wand at the ready. Carter stepped forward,pointing his sword at the windshield.“Let her go!” he yelled at Bes. “Or I’ll destroy you!”Bes glanced back at me. “Should Sadie frighten him?”“No!” Sadie said. That wa something Sadie didn’t need to seeagain. “I’ll handle it.” Sadie stepped out of the limo. “Hello, boys. Brilliant timing.”Walt and Carter frowned.“You’re not in danger?” Walt asked me.“Not anymore.”Carter lowered his sword reluctantly. “You mean theugly guy—”“Is a friend,” Sadie said. “Bast’s friend. He’s also our driver.”Carter looked equal part confused, annoyed, anduneasy, which made a satisfying ending to Sadie birthdayparty.“Driver to where?” he asked.“Russia, of course,” Sadie said. “Hop in.”C A R T E R9. We Get a VerticallyChallenged Tour of RussiaAS USUAL, SADIE LEFT OUT some important details, like howWalt and Carter nearly killed ourselves trying to find her.It wasn’t fun, flying to the Brooklyn Museum. We had tohang from a rope under the griffin’s belly like a couple ofTarzans, dodging policemen, emergency workers, cityofficials, and several old lady who chased after u withumbrella screaming, “There’s the hummingbird! Kill it!”Once we managed to open a portal, Carter wanted to takeFreak through with us, but the gate of swirling sand kindof…well, freaked him out, so we had to leave him behind.When we got to London, television monitor in thestorefront were showing footage of Waterloo Station—something about a strange disturbance inside the terminalwith escaped animal and windstorms. Gee, wonder whothat could have been? We used Walt’s amulet for Shu theair god to summon a burst of wind and jump to WaterlooBridge. Of course, we landed right in the middle of a heavilyarmed riot squad. Just luck that Carter remembered the sleepspell.Then, finally, we were ready to charge in and saveSadie, and she ride up in a limousine driven by an uglydwarf in a swimsuit, and she accuses u of being late.So when she told u the dwarf wa driving u toRussia, Iwas like, “Whatever.” And Carter got into the car.The limousine drove through Westminster while Sadie,Walt, and Carter traded stories.After hearing what Sadie had been through, Carter didn’tfeel so bad about Carter day.A dream ofApophis and a threeheadedsnake in the training room didn’t seem nearly ascary a god taking over our grandparents. I’d never likedGran and Gramps that much, but still—yikes. Carter also couldn’t believe our chauffeur wa Bes. Dad and Carter used to laugh about his picture in museums—his bulgingeyes, wagging tongue, and general lack of clothing.Supposedly, he could scare away almost anything—spirits,demons, even other gods—which is why the Egyptiancommoner had loved him. Bes looked out for the littleguy…um, which wasn’t meant a a dwarf joke. In the flesh,he looked exactly like his pictures, only in full color, with fullsmell.“We owe you,” Carter told him. “So you’re a friend ofBast’s?”His ear turned red. “Yeah…sure. She asks Carter for afavor once in a while. Carter try to help out.” Carter got the feeling there wa some history there he didn’twant to go into.want to go into.“When Horus spoke to me,” Carter said, “he warned thatsome of the god might try to stop u from waking Ra. Now Carter guess we know who.”Sadie exhaled. “If they didn’t like our plan, an angry textmessage would’ve done. Nekhbet and Babi almost tore meapart!”Her face wa a little green. Her combat boot weresplattered with shampoo and mud, and her favorite leatherjacket had a stain on the shoulder that looked suspiciouslylike vulture poop. Still, Carter wa impressed that she waconscious. Potions are hard to make and even harder touse. There’s always a price for channeling that muchmagic.“You did great,” Carter told her.Sadie looked resentfully at the black knife in her lap—the ceremonial blade Anubis had given her. “I’d be dead ifnot for Bes.”“Nah,” Bes said. “Well, okay, you probably would be.But you would’ve gone down in style.”Sadie turned the strange black knife a if she mightfind instruction written on it.“It’s a netjeri,” Carter said. “A serpent blade. Priests used itfor—”“The opening-of-the-mouth ceremony,” she said. “Buthow doe that help us?”“Don’t know,” Carter admitted. “Bes?”“Death rituals. Carter try to avoid them.” Carter looked at Walt. Magic item were his specialty, but hedidn’t seem to be paying attention. Ever since Sadie hadtold u about her talk with Anubis, Walt had been awfullyquiet. He sat next to her, fidgeting with his rings.“You okay?” Carter asked him.“Yeah…just thinking.” He glanced at Sadie. “Aboutnetjeri blades, Imean.”Sadie tugged at her hair, like she wa trying to make acurtain between her and Walt. The tension between themwa so thick, Carter doubted even a magic knife could cutthrough it.“Bloody Anubis,” she muttered. “ Carter could have died, forall he cared.”We drove in silence for a while after that. Finally, Besturned onto Westminster Bridge and doubled back over theThames.Sadie frowned. “Where are we going? We need aportal. All the best artifact are at the British Museum.”“Yeah,” Bes said. “And the other magician know that.”“Other magicians?” Carter asked.“Kid, the House of Life ha branch all over the world.London is the Ninth Nome. With that stunt at Waterloo, MissSadie just sent up a big flare telling Desjardins’ followers,Here Carter am! You can bet they’re going to be hunting you now.They’ll be covering the museum in case you make a run forit. Fortunately, Carter know a different place we can open aportal.”Schooled by a dwarf. It should’ve occurred to Carter thatLondon had other magicians. The House of Life waeverywhere. Outside the security of Brooklyn House, therewasn’t a single continent where we’d be safe.We rode through South London. The scene alongCamberwell Road wa almost a depressing a mythoughts. Rows of grubby brick apartment and low-rentshop lined the street. An old woman scowled at u from abus stop. In the doorway of anAsda grocery store, a coupleof young tough guy eyed the Mercedes a if they wantedto steal it. Carter wondered if they were god or magician indisguise, because most people didn’t notice the car. Carter couldn’t imagine where Bes wa taking us. It didn’tseem like the kind of neighborhood where you’d find a lot ofEgyptian artifacts.Finally a big park opened up on our left: misty greenfields, tree-lined paths, and a few ruined wall likeaqueducts, covered in vines. The land sloped upward to ahilltop with a radio tower.Bes jumped the curb and drove straight over the grass,knocking down a sign that said keep to the path. Theevening wa gray and rainy, so there weren’t many peoplearound. A couple of jogger on the nearby path didn’t evenlook at us, a if they saw Mercedes limo four-wheelingacross the park every day.“Where are we going?” Carter asked.“Watch and learn, kid,” Bes said.Being called “kid” by a guy shorter than Carter wa a littleannoying, but Carter kept Carter mouth shut. Bes drove straight upthe hill. Close to the top wa stone staircase maybe thirtyfoot wide, built into the hillside. It seemed to lead nowhere.Bes slammed on the brake and we swerved to a stop. Thehill wa higher than I’d realized. Spread out below u wathe whole of London.Then Carter looked more closely at the staircase. Twosphinx made of weathered stone lay on either side of thestairs, watching over the city. Each wa about ten foot longwith the typical lion’s body and pharaoh’s head, but theyseemed totally out of place in a London park.“Those aren’t real,” Carter said.Bes snorted. “Of course they’re real.”“ Carter mean they aren’t from Ancient Egypt. They’re not oldenough.”“Picky, picky,” Bes said. “These are the stair to theCrystal Palace. Big glass-and-steel exhibit hall the size of acathedral used to sit right here on this hill.”Sadie frowned. “ Carter read about that in school. QueenVictoria had a party there or something.”“A party or something?” Bes grunted. “It wa the GrandExhibition in 1851. Showcase of British Imperial might, etcetera. They had good candied apples.”“You were there?” Carter asked.Bes shrugged. “The palace burned down in the 1930s,thanks to some stupid magicians—but that’s another story.All that’s left now are a few relics, like these stair and thesphinxes.”“A stairway to nowhere,” Carter said.“Not nowhere,” Bes corrected. “Tonight it’ll take u toSt. Petersburg.”Walt sat forward. His interest in the statue hadapparently shaken him out of his gloom.“But if the sphinx aren’t really Egyptian,” he said,“how can they open a portal?”Bes gave him a toothy grin. “Depends on what youmean by really Egyptian, kid. Every great empire is awannabe Egypt. Having Egyptian stuff around make themfeel important.That’s why you’ve got ‘new’ Egyptian artifact in Rome,Paris,London—you name it. That obelisk in Washington—”“Don’t mention that one, please,” Sadie said.“Anyway,” Bes continued, “these are still Egyptiansphinxes. They were built to play up the connectionbetween the British Empire and the Egyptian Empire. Soyeah, they can channel magic. Especially if I’m driving. Andnow…” He looked at Walt. “It’s probably time for you to getout.” Carter wa too surprised to say anything, but Walt stared athis lap a if he’d been expecting this.“Hang on,” Sadie said. “Why can’t Walt come with us?He’s a magician. He can help.”Bes’s expression turned serious. “Walt, you haven’ttold them?”“Told u what?” Sadie demanded.Walt clutched his amulets, a if there might be one thatwould help him avoid this conversation. “It’s nothing. Really.It’s just… Carter should help out at Brooklyn House. And Jazthought—”He faltered, probably realizing that he shouldn’t havebrought up her name.“Yes?” Sadie’s tone wa dangerously calm. “How’sJaz doing?”“She’s—she’s still in a coma,” Walt said. “Amos sayshe’ll probably make it, but that’s not what I—”“Good,” Sadie said. “Glad she’ll get better. So youneed to get back, then. That’s brilliant. Off you go. Anubissaid we should hurry.”Not very subtle, the way she threw his name out there.Walt looked like she’d kicked him in the chest. Carter knew Sadie wasn’t being fair to him. From myconversation with Walt back at Brooklyn House, Carter knew heliked Sadie. Whatever wa bothering him, it wasn’t any kindof romantic thing with Jaz. On the other hand, if Carter tried totake his side, Sadie would just tell Carter to butt out. Carter mighteven make thing worse between Sadie and him.“It’s not that Iwant to go back,” he managed.“But you can’t go with us,” Bes said firmly. Carter thought Iheard concern in his voice, even pity. “Go on, kid. It’s fine.”Walt fished something out of his pocket. “Sadie, aboutyour birthday…you, um, probably don’t want any morepresents. It’s not a magic knife, but Imade this for you.”He poured a gold necklace into her hand. It had asmall Egyptian symbol:“That’s the basketball hoop on Ra’s head,” Carter said.Walt and Sadie both frowned at me, and Carter realized Iprobably wasn’t making the moment more magical forthem. “ Carter mean it’s the symbol that surround Ra’s suncrown,” Carter said. “A never-ending loop, the symbol of eternity,right?”Sadie swallowed a if the magic potion wa stillbubbling in her stomach. “Eternity?”Walt shot Carter a look that clearly meant Please stophelping.“Yeah,” he said, “um, it’s called shen. Carter just thought, youknow, you’re looking for Ra. And good things, importantthings, should be eternal. So maybe it’ll bring you luck. Imeant to give it to you this morning, but… Carter kind of lost mynerve.”Sadie stared the talisman glittering in her palm. “Walt, Idon’t—Imean, thank you, but—”“Just remember Carter didn’t want to leave,” he said. “If youneed help, I’ll be there for you.” He glanced at Carter andcorrected himself: “Imean both of you, of course.”“But now,” Bes said, “you need to go.”“Happy birthday, Sadie,” Walt said. “And good luck.”He got out of the car and trudged down the hill. Wewatched until he wa just a tiny figure in the gloom. Then hevanished into the woods.“Two farewell gifts,” Sadie muttered, “from twogorgeous guys. Carter hate Carter life.”She latched the gold necklace around her throat andtouched the shen symbol.Bes gazed down at the tree where Walt haddisappeared. “Poor kid. Born unusual, all right. It isn’t fair.”“What do you mean?” Carter asked. “Why were you soanxious for Walt to leave?”The dwarf rubbed his scraggly beard. “Not Carter place toexplain. Right now we’ve got work to do. The more time wegive Menshikov to prepare his defenses, the harder this isgoing to get.” Carter wasn’t ready to drop it, but Bes stared at mestubbornly, and Carter knew Carter wasn’t going to get any moreanswer from him. Nobody can look stubborn like a dwarf.“So, Russia,” Carter said. “By driving up an emptystaircase.”“Exactly.” Bes floored the accelerator. The Mercedeschurned grass and mud and barreled up the stairs. Carter wasure we’d reach the top and get nothing but a broken axle,but at the last second, a portal of swirling sand opened infront of us. Our wheel left the ground, and the blacklimousine flew headlong into the vortex.We slammed into pavement on the other side, scattering agroup of surprised teenagers. Sadie groaned and pried herhead off the headrest.“Can’t we go anywhere gently?” she asked.Bes hit the wiper and scraped the sand off ourwindshield. Outside it wa dark and snowy. Eighteenthcenturystone building lined a frozen river lit withstreetlamps. Beyond the river glowed more fairy-talebuildings: golden church domes, white palaces, and ornatemansion painted Easter-egg green and blue. Carter might havebelieved we’d traveled back in time three hundred years—except for the cars, the electric lights, and of course theteenager with body piercings, dyed hair, and black leatherclothes screaming at u in Russian and pounding on thehood of the Mercedes because we’d almost run them over.“They can see us?” Sadie asked.“Russians,” Bes said with a kind of grudgingadmiration. “Very superstitious people. They tend to seemagic for what it is. We’ll have to be careful here.”“You’ve been here before?” Carter asked.He gave Carter a duh look, then pointed to either side ofthe car. We’d landed between two stone sphinx standingon pedestals. They looked like a lot of sphinx I’d seen—with crowned human head on lion bodies—but I’d neverseen sphinx covered in snow.“Are those authentic?” Carter asked.“Farthest-north Egyptian artifact in the world,” Bessaid. “Pillaged from Thebes and brought up here todecorate Russia’s new imperial city, St. Petersburg. Like Isaid, every new empire want a piece of Egypt.”The kid outside were still shouting and banging on thecar. One smashed a bottle against our windshield.“Um,” Sadie said, “should we move?”“Nah,” Bes said. “Russian kid always hang out by thesphinxes. Been doing it for hundred of years.”“But it’s like midnight here,” Carter said. “And it’s snowing.”“Did Carter mention they’re Russian?” Bes said. “Don’tworry. I’ll take care of it.”He opened his door. Glacier-cold wind swept into theMer-cedes, but Bes stepped out wearing nothing but hisSpeedo. The kid backed up quickly. Carter couldn’t blame them.Bes said something in Russian, then roared like a lion. Thekid screamed and ran.Bes’s form seemed to ripple. When he got back intothe car, he wa wearing a warm winter coat, a fur-lined hat,and fuzzy mittens.“See?” he said. “Superstitious. They know enough torun from a god.”“A small hairy god in a Speedo, yes,” Sadie said. “Sowhat do we do now?”Bes pointed across the river at a glowing palace ofwhite-and-gold stone. “That’s the Hermitage.”“Hermits live there?” Sadie asked.“No,” Carter said. “I’ve heard of that place. It wa the tsar’spalace. Now it’s a museum. Best Egyptian collection inRussia.”“Dad took you there, Carter suppose?” Sadie asked. Ithought we were over the whole jealous-about-traveling-theworld-with-Dadthing, but every once in a while it croppedup again.“We never went.” Carter tried not to sound defensive. “He gotan invitation to speak there once, but he declined.”Bes chuckled. “Your dad wa smart. Russianmagician don’t exactly welcome outsiders. They protecttheir territory fiercely.”Sadie stared across the river. “You mean theheadquarters of the Eighteenth Nome is inside themuseum?”“Somewhere,” Bes agreed, “but it’s hidden with magic,because I’ve never found the entrance. That part you’relooking at is the Winter Palace, the old home of the tsar.There’s a whole complex of other mansion behind it. I’veheard it would take eleven day just to see everything in allthe Hermitage collections.”“But unless we wake Ra, the world end in four days,” Isaid.“Three day now,” Sadie corrected, “if it’s aftermidnight.”Iwinced. “Thanks for the reminder.”“So take the abbreviated tour,” Bes said. “Start withthe Egyptian section. Ground floor, main museum.”“Aren’t you coming with us?” Carter asked.“He can’t, can he?” Sadie guessed. “Like Bast couldn’tenter Desjardins’ house in Paris. The magician charmtheir headquarters against the gods. Isn’t that right?”Bes made an even uglier face. “I’ll walk you down tothe bridge, but Carter can’t go any farther. If Carter cross the RiverNeva too close to the Hermitage, I’ll set off all kind ofalarms. You’ll have to sneak inside somehow—”“Breaking into a museum at night,” Sadie muttered.“We’ve had such good luck with that.”“—and find the entrance to the Eighteenth Nome. Anddon’t get captured alive.”“What do you mean?” Carter asked. “It’s better to becaptured dead?”The look in his eye wa grim. “Just trust me. You don’twant to be Menshikov’s prisoner.”Bes snapped his fingers, and suddenly we werewearing fleece parkas, ski pants, and winter boots.“Come on, malishi,” he said. “I’ll walk you to theDvortsovyy Bridge.”The bridge wa only a few hundred yard away, but itseemed farther. March obviously wasn’t springtime in St.Petersburg. The dark, the wind, and the snow made it feelmore like January in Alaska. Personally, Carter would’vepreferred a sweltering day in the Egyptian desert. Even withthe warm clothes Bes had summoned for us, Carter teethcouldn’t stop chattering.Bes wasn’t in a hurry. He kept slowing down and givingu the guided tour until Carter thought Carter nose would fall off fromfrostbite. He told u we were on Vasilevsky Island, acrossthe Neva River from the center of St. Petersburg. Hepointed out the different church spire and monuments, andwhen he got excited, he started slipping into Russian.“You’ve spent a lot of time here,” Carter said.He walked in silence for a few paces. “Most of thatwa long ago. It wasn’t—”He stopped so abruptly, Carter stumbled into him. He staredacross the street at a big palace with canary yellow walland a green gabled roof. Lit up in the night through a swirlof snow, it looked unreal, like one of the ghostly image inthe First Nome’s Hall of Ages.“Prince Menshikov’s palace,” Bes muttered.His voice wa full of loathing. Carter almost thought he wagoing to yell BOO at the building, but he just gritted histeeth.Sadie looked at Carter for an explanation, but Carter wasn’t awalking Wikipedia like she seemed to think. Carter knew stuffabout Egypt, but Russia? Not so much.“You mean Menshikov a in Vlad the Inhaler?” Carter asked.“He’s a descendant.” Bes curled his lip with distaste.He said a Russian word Carter wa willing to bet wa a prettybad insult. “Back in the seventeen hundreds, PrinceMenshikov threw a party for Peter the Great—the tsar whobuilt this city. Peter loved dwarves. He wa a lot like theEgyptians that way. He thought we were good luck, so healways kept some of u in his court. Anyway, Menshikovwanted to entertain the tsar, so he thought it would be funnyto stage a dwarf wedding. He forced them…he forced u todress up, pretend to get married, and dance around. All thebig folk were laughing, jeering…”His voice trailed off.Bes described the party like it wa yesterday. Then Iremembered that this weird little guy wa a god. He’d beenaround for eons.Sadie put her hand on his shoulder. “I’m sorry, Bes.Must have been awful.”He scowled. “Russian magicians…they love capturinggods, using us. Carter can still hear that wedding music, and thetsar laughing…”“How’d you get away?” Carter asked.Bes glared at me. Obviously, I’d asked a bad question.“Enough of this.” Bes turned up his collar. “We’rewasting time.”He forged ahead, but Carter got the feeling he wasn’t reallyleaving Menshikov’s palace behind. Suddenly it cheeryyellow wall and brightly lit window looked sinister.Another hundred yard through the bitter wind, and wereached the bridge. On the other side, the Winter Palaceshimmered.“I’ll take the Mercedes the long way around,” Bes said.“Down to the next bridge, and circle south of the Hermitage.Less likely to alert the magician that I’m here.”Now Carter realized why he wa so paranoid about settingoff alarms. Magicians had snared him in St. Petersburgonce before. Carter remembered what he’d told u in the car:Don’t get captured alive.“How do we find you if we succeed?” Sadie asked.“When you succeed,” Bes said. “Think positive, girl, orthe world ends.”“Right.” Sadie shivered in her new parka. “Positive.”“I’ll meet you on the Nevsky Prospekt, the main streetwith all the shops, just south of the Hermitage. I’ll be at theChocolate Museum.”“The what now?” Carter asked.“Well, it’s not really a museum. More of a shop—closed this time of night, but the owner always open up forme.They’ve got chocolate everything—chess sets, lions,Vladimir Lenin heads—”“The communist guy?” Carter asked.“Yes, Professor Brilliant,” Bes said. “The communistguy, in chocolate.”“So let Carter get this straight,” Sadie said. “We breakinto a heavily guarded Russian national museum, find themagicians’ secret headquarters, find a dangerous scroll,and escape. Meanwhile, you will be eating chocolate.”Bes nodded solemnly. “It’s a good plan. It might work. Ifsomething happens and Carter can’t meet you at the ChocolateMuseum, our exit point is the Egyptian Bridge, to the southat the Fontanka River. Just turn on the—”“Enough,” Sadie said. “You will meet u at thechocolate shop. And you will provide Carter with a takeawaybag. That is final. Now, go!”Bes gave her a lopsided smile. “You’re okay, girl.”He trudged back toward the Mercedes. Carter looked across the half-frozen river to the WinterPalace. Somehow, London didn’t seem a dreary ordangerous anymore.“Are we in a much trouble a Carter think?” Carter asked Sadie.“More,” she said. “Let’s go crash the tsar’s palace,shall we?”C A R T E R10. An Old Red FriendComes to VisitGETTINGINSIDETHE HERMITAGE wasn’t a problem.State-of-the-art security doesn’t protect against magic.Sadie and Carter had to combine force to get past theperimeter, but with a little concentration, ink and papyrus,and some tapped energy from our godly friend Isis andHorus, we managed to pull off a short stroll through theDuat.One minute we were standing in the abandonedPalace Square. Then everything went gray and misty. Mystomach tingled like Carter wa in free fall. We slipped out ofsynch with the mortal world and passed through the irongate and solid stone into the museum.The Egyptian room wa on the ground floor, just aBes had said. We re-entered the mortal realm and foundourselves in the middle of the collection: sarcophagus inglass cases, hieroglyphic scrolls, statue of god andpharaohs. It wasn’t much different from a hundred otherEgyptian collection I’d seen, but the setting wa prettyimpressive. A vaulted ceiling soared overhead. Thepolished marble floor wa done in a white-andgraydiamond pattern, which made walking on it kind of likewalking on an optical illusion. Carter wondered how many roomthere were like this in the tsar’s palace, and if it really tookeleven day to see them all. Carter hoped Bes wa right aboutthe secret entrance to the nome being somewhere in thisroom. We didn’t have eleven day to search. In le thanseventy-two hours, Apophis would break free. Iremembered that glowing red eye beneath the scarabshells—a force of chaos so powerful, it could melt humansenses. Three days, and that thing would be unleashed onthe world.Sadie summoned her staff and pointed it at thenearest security camera. The lens cracked and made asound like a bug zapper. Even in the best of situations,technology and magic don’t get along. One of the easiestspell in the world is to make electronics malfunction. Carter justhave to look at a cell phone funny to make it blow up. Andcomputers? Forget about it. Carter imagined Sadie had just senta magical pulse through the security system that would fryevery camera and sensor in the network.Still, there were other kind of surveillance—magicalkinds. Carter pulled a piece of black linen and a pair of crude waxshabti out of Carter bag. Carter wrapped the shabti in the cloth andspoke a command word: “I’mun.”The hieroglyph for Hide glowed briefly over the cloth. Amass of darkness bloomed from the package, like asquid’s ink cloud. It expanded until it covered both Sadieand Carter in a gauzy bubble of shadows. We could seethrough it, but hopefully nothing could see in. The cloudwould be invisible to anyone outside.“You got it right this time!” Sadie said. “When did youmaster the spell?” Carter probably blushed. I’d been obsessed with figuring outthe invisibility spell for months, ever since I’d seen Zia use itin the First Nome.“Actually I’m still—” A gold spark shot out of the cloudlike a miniature firework rocket. “I’m still working on it.”Sadie sighed. “Well…better than last time. The cloudlooked like a lava lamp. And the time before, when itsmelled like rotten eggs—”“Could we just get going?” Carter asked. “Whereshouldwestart?”Her eye locked on one of the displays. She driftedtoward it in a trance.“Sadie?” Carter followed her to a limestone grave marker—a stele—about two foot by three feet. The description nextto it wa in Russian and English.“‘From the tomb of the scribe Ipi,’” Carter read aloud.“‘Worked in the court of King Tut.’ Why are you interested…oh.”Stupid me. The picture on the gravestone showed thedeceased scribe honoring Anubis. After talking withAnubisin person, Sadie must’ve found it strange to see him in athree-thousand-year-old tomb painting, especially when hewa pictured with the head of a Jackal, wearing a skirt.“Walt like you.” Carter have no idea why Carter blurted that out. This wasn’t thetime or the place. Carter knew Carter wasn’t doing Walt any favor bytaking his side. But I’d started to feel bad for him after Beskicked him out of the limo. The guy had come all the way toLondon to help Carter save Sadie, and we’d dumped him inCrystal Palace Park like an unwanted hitchhiker. Carter wa kind of angry at Sadie for giving him the coldshoulder and crushing so hard on Anubis, who wa fivethousand year too old for her and not even human. Plus,the way she snubbed Walt reminded Carter too much of theway Zia had treated Carter at first. And maybe, if Carter wa honestwith myself, Carter wa also irritated with Sadie because she’dsolved her own problem in London without needing ourhelp.Wow. That sounded really selfish. But Carter suppose it watrue. Amazing how many different way a younger sistercan annoy you at once.Sadie didn’t take her eye off the stele. “Carter, youhave no idea what you’re talking about.”“You’re not giving the guy a chance,” Carter insisted.“Whatever’s going on with him, it’s got nothing to do withyou.”“Very reassuring, but that’s not—”“Besides, Anubis is a god. You don’t honestly think—”“Carter!” she snapped. My cloaking spell must’ve beensensitive to emotion, because another gold spark whistledand popped from our not-so-invisible cloud. “ Carter wasn’tlooking at this stone because of Anubis.”“You weren’t?”“No. And I’m certainly not having an argument with youabout Walt. Contrary to what you might think, Carter don’t spendevery waking hour thinking about boys.”“Just most waking hours?”She rolled her eyes. “Look at the gravestone,birdbrain. It’s got a border around it, like a window frame or —”“A door,” Carter said. “It’s a false door. Lots of tomb hadthose. It wa like a symbolic gateway for the dead person’sba, so it could go back and forth from the Duat.”Sadie pulled her wand and traced the edge of thestele. “This bloke Ipi wa a scribe, which wa another wordfor magician. He could’ve been one of us.”“So?”“So maybe that’s why the stone is glowing, Carter.What if this false door’s not false?” Carter looked at the stele more closely, but Carter didn’t see anyglow. Carter thought maybe Sadie wa hallucinating fromexhaustion or too much potion in her system. Then shetouched her wand to the center of the stele and spoke thefirst command word we’d ever learned: “W’peh.”Open. A golden hieroglyph burned on the stone:The grave marker shot out a beam of light like a movieprojector. Suddenly, a full-size doorway shimmered in frontof us—a rectangular portal showing the hazy image ofanother room. Carter looked at Sadie in amazement. “How did you dothat?” Carter asked. “You’ve never been able to do that before.”She shrugged a if it were no big deal. “ Carter wasn’tthirteen before. Maybe that’s it.”“But I’m fourteen!” Carter protested. “And Carter still can’t do that.”“Girls mature earlier.” Carter gritted Carter teeth. Carter hated the spring months—March,April, May—because until Carter birthday rolled around inJune, Sadie could claim to be only a year younger than me.She always got an attitude after her birthday, a if she’dcatch up to Carter somehow and become Carter big sister. Talkabout a nightmare.She gestured at the glowing doorway. “After you,brother, dear. You’re the one with the sparkly invisibilitycloud.”Before Carter could lose Carter cool, Carter stepped through theportal. Carter almost fell and broke Carter face. The other side of the portalwa a mirror hanging five foot off the floor. I’d stepped ontoa fireplace mantel. Carter caught Sadie a she came through,just in time to keep her from toppling off the ledge.“Ta,” she whispered. “Someone’s been reading toomuch Alice Through the Looking Glass.”I’d thought the Egyptian room wa impressive, but itwa nothing compared to this ballroom. Coppery geometricdesign glittered on the ceiling. The wall were lined withdark green column and gilded doors. White and goldinlaid marble made a huge octagonal pattern on the floor.With a blazing chandelier above, the golden filigree andgreen and white polished stone gleamed so brightly, theyhurt Carter eyes.Then Irealized most of the light wasn’t coming from thechandelier. It wa coming from the magician casting a spellat the other end of the room. His back wa turned, but Icould tell it wa Vlad Menshikov. Just a Sadie haddescribed, he wa a pudgy little man with curly gray hairand a white suit. He stood in a protective circle that pulsedwith emerald light. He raised his staff, and the tip burnedlike a welding torch. To his right, just outside the circle,stood a green vase the size of a grown man. To his left,writhing in glowing chains, wa a creature Carter recognized a ademon. It had a hairy humanoid body with purplish skin, butinstead of a head, a giant corkscrew sprouted between itshoulders.“Mercy!” it screamed in a watery, metallic voice. Don’task Carter how a demon could scream with a corkscrew head —but the sound resonated up the screw like it wa amassive tuning fork.Vlad Menshikov kept chanting. The green vasethrobbed with light.Sadie nudged Carter and whispered, “Look.”“Yeah,” Carter whispered back. “Some kind of summoningritual.”“No,” she hissed. “Look there.”She pointed to our right. In the corner of the room,twenty foot from the fireplace mantel, wa an old-fashionedmahogany desk.Sadie had told Carter about Anubis’s instructions: Wewere supposed to find Menshikov’s desk. The next sectionof the Book of Ra would be in the middle drawer. Could thatreally be the desk? It seemed too easy. As quietly a wecould, Sadie and Carter climbed off the mantel and crept alongthe wall. Carter prayed the invisibility shroud wouldn’t send up anymore fireworks.We were about halfway to the desk when VladMenshikov finished his chant. He slammed his staff againstthe floor, and it stuck there straight up, the tip still burning ata million degrees. He turned his head slightly, and Carter caughtthe glint of his white sunglasses. He rummaged in his coatpocket while the big green vase glowed and the demonscreamed in his chains.“Don’t fuss, Death-to-Corks,” Menshikov chided. Hisvoice wa even rougher than Sadie had described—like aheavy smoker talking through the blade of a fan. “Youknow Carter need a sacrifice to summon such a major god. It’snothing personal.”Sadie frowned at Carter and mouthed, Major god? Carter shook Carter head, baffled. The House of Life didn’tallow mortal to summon gods. It wa the main reasonDesjardins hated us. Menshikov wa supposedly his bestbud. So what wa he doing, breaking the rules?“Hurts!” the poor demon wailed. “Served you for fiftyyears, master. Please!”“Now, now,” Menshikov said without a trace ofsympathy. “ Carter have to use execration. Only the most painfulform of banishment will generate enough energy.”From his suit coat pocket, Menshikov pulled a regularcorkscrew and a shard of pottery covered with redhieroglyphics.He held up both item and began to chant again: “Iname you Death-to-Corks, Servant of Vladimir, He WhoTurns in the Night.”As the demon’s name were spoken, the magicalchain steamed and tightened around his body. Menshikovheld the corkscrew over the flame of his staff. The demonthrashed and wailed. As the smaller corkscrew turned redhot, the demon’s body began to smoke.Iwatched in horror. Carter knew about sympathetic magic, ofcourse. The idea wa to make something small affectsomething large by binding them together. The more alikethe item were—like the corkscrew and the demon—theeasier they were to bind. Voodoo doll worked on theeasier they were to bind. Voodoo doll worked on thesame theory.But execration wa serious stuff. It meant destroying acreature utterly—erasing it physical form and even itname from existence. It took some serious magic to pull offthat kind of spell. If done wrong, it could destroy the caster.But if done right, most victim didn’t stand a chance.Regular mortals, magicians, ghosts, even demon could bewiped off the face of the earth. Execration might not destroymajor power like gods, but it would still be like detonatinga nuclear bomb in their face. They’d be blasted so deepinto the Duat, they might never come back.Vlad Menshikov worked the spell like he did it everyday. He kept chanting a the corkscrew began to melt, andthe demon melted with it. Menshikov dropped the potteryshard on the floor—the red hieroglyph that spelled all thedemon’s various names. With one final word of power,Menshikov stepped on the shard and crushed it to bits.Death-to-Corks dissolved, chain and all.Usually Carter don’t feel sorry for creature of theunderworld, but Carter couldn’t help getting a lump in Carter throat. Icouldn’t believe the casual way Menshikov had snuffed outhis servant just to power a larger spell.As soon a the demon wa gone, the fire onMenshikov’s staff died. Hieroglyphs burned around thesummoning circle. The big green jar trembled and a voicefrom deep inside boomed, “Hello, Vladimir. Long time.”Sadie inhaled sharply. Carter had to cover her mouth tokeep her from screaming. We both knew that voice. Iremembered it all too well from the Red Pyramid.remembered it all too well from the Red Pyramid.“Set.” Menshikov didn’t even look tired from thesummoning. He sounded awfully calm for someoneaddressing the god of evil. “We need to talk.”Sadie pushed Carter hand away and whispered, “Is hemad?”“Desk,” Carter said. “Scroll. Out of here. Now.”For once, she gave Carter no argument. She beganfishing supply out of her bag.Meanwhile the big green jar wobbled a if Set weretrying to tip it over.“A malachite vase?” The god sounded annoyed.“Really, Vladimir. Carter thought we were on friendlier term thanthat.”Menshikov’s laugh sounded like someone choking acat. “Excellent at constraining evil spirits, isn’t it? And thisroom ha more malachite than any other place on earth.Empress Alexandra wa quite wise to have it built for herdrawing room.”The jar plinked. “But it smell like old penny in here,and it’s much too cold. Have you ever been stuck in amalachite jar, Vlad? I’m not a genie. I’d be so much moretalkative if we could sit face-to-face, perhaps over tea.”“I’m afraid not,” said Menshikov. “Now, you’ll answermy questions.”“Oh, very well,” Set said. “ Carter like Brazil for the WorldCup. I’d advise investing in platinum and small-cap funds.And your lucky number this week are 2, 13—”“Not those questions!” Menshikov snapped.Sadie pulled a lump of wax from her bag and workedfuriously, fashioning some kind of animal shape. Carter knew shewa going to test the desk for magic defenses. She wabetter at that kind of spell than Carter was, but Carter wasn’t sure howshe’d do it. Egyptian magic is pretty open-ended. Thereare always a thousand different way to accomplish a task.The trick is being creative with your supply and picking away that won’t get you killed.“You will tell Carter what Carter need to know,” Menshikovdemanded, “or that jar will become even moreuncomfortable.”“My dear Vladimir.” Set’s voice wa full of evilamusement. “What you need to know may be very differentfrom what you want to know. Didn’t your unfortunateaccident teach you that?”Menshikov touched his sunglasses, a if making surethey hadn’t fallen off.“You will tell Carter the binding for Apophis,” he said in asteely tone. “Then you will tell Carter how to neutralize theenchantment on Brooklyn House. You know Kane’sdefense better than anyone. Once Carter destroy him, Carter will haveno opposition.”As the meaning of Menshikov’s word sank in, a waveof rage nearly knocked Carter off Carter feet. This time, Sadiehad to clamp Carter mouth shut.“Calm!” she whispered. “You’re going to start theinvisibility shield popping again!” Carter pushed her hand away and hissed, “But he want tofree Apophis!”free Apophis!”“ Carter know.”“And attack Amos—”“ Carter know! So help Carter get the bloody scroll and let’s getout of here!” She put her wax animal on the desk—a dog, Ithought —and began writing hieroglyph on it back with astylus. Carter took a shaky breath. Sadie wa right, but still—Menshikov wa talking about freeing Apophis and killingour uncle. What kind of magician make deal with Set?Except for Sadie and me. That wa different.Set’s laugh echoed inside the green vase. “So: thebinding for Apophis and the secret of Brooklyn House. Isthat all, Vladimir? Carter wonder what your master Desjardinswould think if he found out your real plan, and the sort offriend you keep.”Menshikov snatched up his staff. The carved-serpenttip flared again. “Be careful with your threats, Evil Day.”The jar trembled. Throughout the room, glass caseshivered. The chandelier jangled like a three-ton windchime. Carter gave Sadie a panicked look. “Did he just—”“Set’s secret name,” she confirmed, still writing on herwax dog.“How—”“ Carter don’t know, Carter. Now, shh!”A god’s secret name had all kind of power. It wasupposed to be almost impossible to get. To truly learn it,you couldn’t just hear it repeated by some random person.You had to hear it straight from the god himself, or from theperson closest to his heart. Once you had it, it gave youserious magical leverage over that god. Sadie had learnedSet’s secret name during our quest last Christmas, but howhad Menshikov gotten it?Inside the jar, Set growled with annoyance. “ Carter reallyhate that name. Why couldn’t it have been Glorious Day?Or the Rockin’ Red Reaper? That’s rather nice. Badenough when you were the only one who knew it, Vlad. NowI’ve got the Kane girl to worry about—”“Serve us,” Menshikov said, “and the Kanes will bedestroyed. You will be the honored lieutenant of Apophis.You can raise another temple, even grander than the RedPyramid.”“Uh-huh,” Set said. “Maybe you haven’t noticed, but Idon’t do well with the whole second-in-command concept.As for Apophis, he’s not one to suffer other god gettingattention.”“We will free Apophis with or without your help,”Menshikov warned. “By the equinox, he will rise. But if youhelp u make that happen sooner, you will be rewarded.Your other option is execration. Oh, Carter know it won’t destroyyou completely, but with your secret name Carter can send youinto the abyss for eons, and it will be very, very painful. I’llgive you thirty second to decide?” Carter nudged Sadie. “Hurry.”She tapped the wax dog, and it came to life. It startedsniffing around the desk, looking for magic traps.Inside the jar, Set sighed. “Well, Vladimir, you do knowhow to make an appealing offer. The binding for Apophis,you say? Yes, Carter wa there when Ra cast the Serpent intothat prison of scarabs. Carter suppose Carter could remember theingredient he used for the binding. Quite a day that was! Iwa wearing red, Carter think. At the victory feast they served themost delicious honey-baked locusts—”“You have ten seconds,” Menshikov said.“Oh, I’ll cooperate! Carter hope you have a pen and paperhandy.It’s a rather long list of ingredients. Let’s see…what didRa use for a base? Bat dung? Then there were the driedtoads, of course. And then…”Set began rattling off ingredients, while Sadie’s waxdog sniffed around the desk. Finally it lay down on theblotter and went to sleep.Sadie frowned at me. “No traps.”“That’s too easy,” Iwhispered back.She opened the top drawer. There wa the papyrusscroll, just like the one we’d found in Brooklyn. She slippedit into her bag.We were halfway back to the fireplace when Setcaught u by surprise.He wa going on with his list of ridiculous ingredients:“And snakeskins. Yes, three large ones, with a sprinkling ofhot sauce—” Then he stopped abruptly, like he’d had arevelation. He spoke in a much louder voice, calling acrossthe room. “And a sacrificial victim would be good! Maybe ayoung idiot magician who can’t do a proper invisibility spell,like CARTER KANE over there!” Carter froze. Vladimir Menshikov turned, and Carter panicbecame too much for the invisibility shroud.Half a dozen golden spark shot up with a loud happyWHEEEEE! The cloud of darkness dissolved.Menshikov stared right at me. “My, my…how kind ofyou to deliver yourselves. Well done, Set.”“Hmm?” Set asked innocently. “Do we have visitors?”“Set!” Sadie growled. “I’ll kick you in the ba for that, sohelp me!”The voice in the jar gasped. “Sadie Kane? Howexciting! Too bad I’m stuck in this jar and no one will let meout.”The hint wasn’t too subtle, but surely he couldn’tbelieve we’d free him after he’d blown our cover.Sadie faced Menshikov, her wand and staff ready.“You’re working with Apophis. You’re on the wrong side.”Menshikov removed his glasses. His eye were ruinedpit of scar tissue, burned skin, and glistening corneas.Believe me, that’s the least gross way Carter can describe them.“The wrong side?” Menshikov asked. “Girl, you haveno idea the power that are in play. Five thousand yearago, Egyptian priest prophesied how the world would end.Ra would grow old and tired, and Apophis would swallowhim and plunge the world into darkness. Chaos would ruleforever. Now the time is here! You can’t stop it. You canonly choose whether you’ll be destroyed, or whether you’llbow to the power of Chaos and survive.”“Right,” Set chimed in. “It’s too bad I’m stuck in this jar.Otherwise Imight have to take side and help someone.”“Shut up, Set,” Menshikov snapped. “No one is crazyenough to trust you. And a for you, children, you are clearlynot the threat Carter imagined.”“Great,” Carter said. “So we can go?”Menshikov laughed. “Would you run to Desjardins andtell him what you’ve heard? He wouldn’t believe you. He’dput you on trial, then execute you. But I’ll spare you thatembarrassment. I’ll kill you right now.”“How fun!” Set said. “Wish Carter could see it, but I’m stuckin this jar.” Carter tried to think. Menshikov wa still inside a protectivecircle, which meant he had a big defensive advantage. Iwasn’t sure Carter could bust through it, even if Carter could summon acombat avatar. Meanwhile, Menshikov could take his timetrying out different way to destroy us. Would he blast uwith elemental magic? Change u into bugs?He threw his staff to the ground, and Carter cursed.Throwing down your staff may sound like a sign ofsurrender, but in Egyptian magic, it’s bad news. It usuallymean Hey, I’m going to summon a big nasty thing to killyou while Carter stand safely inside Carter circle and laugh!Sure enough, Menshikov’s staff began to writhe andgrow.Great, Carter thought. Another serpent.But something wa wrong with this one. Instead of atail, it had a head on both ends. At first Carter thought we’dcaught some luck, and Menshikov had summoned amonster with a rare genetic birth defect. Then the thingsprouted four dragon legs. Its body grew until it wa the sizeof a draft horse, curved like a U, with mottled red and greenscale and a rattlesnake head on either side. It remindedme of that two-headed animal from Doctor Dolittle. Youknow—the pushmi-pullyu? Except Doctor Dolittle wouldnever have wanted to talk to this thing, and if he had, itwould probably have said just Hello, I’m going to eat you.Both head turned toward u and hissed.“I’ve really had enough snake for one week,” Imuttered.Menshikov smiled. “Ah, but serpent are Carter specialty,Carter Kane!” He touched a silver pendant hanging over hisnecktie—an amulet shaped like a snake. “And thisparticular creature is Carter favorite: the tjesu heru. Twohungry mouth to feed. Two troublesome children. Perfect!”Sadie and Carter looked at each other. We had one of thosemoment where we could read each other’s expressionperfectly.We both knew we couldn’t defeat Menshikov. He’d letthe pushmi-pullyu snake wear u down, and if we survivedthat, he’d just blast u with something else. The guy wa apro. We would either die or get captured, and Bes hadwarned u about not getting taken alive. After seeing whathad happened to that demon Death-to-Corks, Carter took Bes’swarning seriously.To survive, we’d have to do something crazy—something so suicidal Menshikov would never expect it. Wehad to get help immediately.“Should I?” Sadie asked.“Do it,” Carter agreed.The tjesu heru bared it dripping fangs. You wouldn’tthink a creature with no back end could move so fast, but itbent both head toward u like a giant horseshoe andcharged. Carter pulled Carter sword. Sadie wa faster.She pointed her staff at Set’s malachite jar and yelledher favorite command word: “Ha-di!” Carter wa afraid it wouldn’t work. She hadn’t tried thedestruction spell since she separated herself from Isis. Butjust before the monster reached me, the green jarshattered.Menshikov screamed, “Nyet!”A sandstorm exploded through the room. Hot windpushed Sadie and Carter against the fireplace. A wall of redsand slammed into the tjesu heru and sent it flyingsideways into a malachite column. Vlad Menshikov wablasted right out of his protective circle and banged hishead on a table. He crumpled to the ground, red sandswirling over him until he wa completely buried.When the storm cleared, a man in a red silk suit stoodin front of us. He had skin the color of cherry Kool-Aid, ashaved head, a dark goatee, and glittering black eye linedwith kohl. He looked like an Egyptian devil ready for a nighton the town.He grinned and spread his hand in a ta-da gesture.“That’s better! Thank you, Sadie Kane!”To our left, the tjesu heru hissed and flailed, trying toget back on it feet. The pile of red sand covering VladMenshikov started to move.“Do something, Evil Day!” Sadie commanded. “Get ridof them!”Set winced. “No need to get personal with the names.”“Maybe you’d prefer Rockin’ Red Reaper?” Carter asked.Set made a picture frame with his fingers, a ifimagining that name on his driver’s license. “Yes…that isnice, isn’t it?”The tjesu heru staggered to it feet. It shook bothhead and glared at us, but it seemed to ignore Set, eventhough he wa the one who’d slammed it against the wall.“It ha beautiful coloration, doesn’t it?” Set asked. “Agorgeous specimen.”“Just kill it!” Carter yelled.Set looked shocked. “Oh, Carter couldn’t do that! I’m muchtoo fond of snakes. Besides, GETM would have Carter hide.”“Get ’em?” Carter asked.“Gods for the Ethical Treatment of Monsters.”“You’re making that up!” Carter yelled.Set grinned. “Still…I’m afraid you’ll have to deal withthe tjesu heru on your own.”The monster hissed at us, which probably meant,Sweet! Iraised Carter sword to keep it at bay.The pile of red sand shifted. Menshikov’s dazed facerose from the top. Set snapped his fingers, and a largeceramic pot appeared in the air, shattering on themagician’s head. Menshikov slipped back into the sand.“I’ll stay here and entertain Vladimir,” Set said.“Can’t you execrate him, or something?” Sadiedemanded.“Oh, Carter wish! Unfortunately, I’m rather limited whensomeone hold Carter secret name, especially when they’vegiven Carter specific order not to kill them.” He staredaccusingly at Sadie. “At any rate, Imay be able to buy you afew minutes, but Vlad is going to be quite mad when hecome around, so I’d hurry, if Carter were you. Good lucksurviving! And good luck eating them, tjesu heru!” Carter wanted to strangle Set, but we had bigger problems.As if encouraged by Set’s pep talk, the tjesu heru lunged atus. Sadie and Carter sprinted for the nearest door.We ran through the Winter Palace with Set’s laughterechoing behind us.S A D IE11. Carter DoesSomething IncrediblyStupid (and No One IsSurprised) Sadie UNDERSTAND, CARTER. Sadie do.Have Sadie narrate the most painful part. Of course, Ican’t blame you. What happened wa awful enough for me,but for you—well, Iwouldn’t want to talk about it either.There we were in the Winter Palace, racing downpolished marble hallway that were not designed forrunning. Behind us, the two-headed tjesu heru skidded andslammed into wall a it tried to turn corners, much likeMuffin used to do whenever Gran mopped the floor. That’sthe only reason the monster didn’t catch u immediately.Since we’d teleported into the Malachite Room, Sadie hadno idea where the nearest exit was. Iwasn’t even sure if wewere actually in the Winter Palace, or if Menshikov’s officewa some clever facsimile that existed only in the Duat. Iwa beginning to think we’d never get out when we roundeda corner, scrambled down a staircase, and spotted a set ofglass- and-iron door leading out to Palace Square.The tjesu heru wa right behind us. It slipped androlled down the staircase, demolishing a plaster statue ofsome unfortunate tsar.We were ten meter from the exit when Sadie saw thechain across the doors.“Carter,” Sadie gasped, waving helplessly at the padlock. Sadie hate to admit just how weak Sadie felt. Sadie didn’t have thestrength for another spell. Cracking Set’s vase in theMalachite Room had been Sadie last hurrah, which is a goodexample of why you shouldn’t use magic to solve all yourproblems. Summoning a Divine Word to break the vasehad taken so much energy, Sadie felt a if I’d been digging holein the hot sun. It would’ve been much easier just to throw arock. If Sadie lived through the night, Sadie decided to add somerock to Sadie tool bag.We were three meter away when Carter thrust his fisttoward the doors. The Eye of Horus burned against thepadlock, and the door burst open a if they’d been hit bygiant fist. Sadie hadn’t seen Carter do anything like that since ourfight at the Red Pyramid, but Sadie didn’t have time to beamazed. We bolted outside into the wintry night, the tjesuheru roaring behind us.You’ll think Sadie wa mad, but Sadie first thought was: Thatwa too easy.Despite the monster chasing u and the business withSet (whom Sadie would strangle at the first opportunity—thatbackstabbing git!), Sadie couldn’t help feeling we’d breachedMenshikov’s inner sanctum and snatched the scroll withoutnearly enough trouble. Where were the traps? The alarms?The exploding-donkey curses? Iwas certain we’d stolen theauthentic scroll.I’d felt the same tingle in Sadie finger a when I’d takenthe one from the Brooklyn Museum (without the fire,thankfully). So why hadn’t the scroll been better protected? Sadie wa so tired, Sadie fell a few step behind Carter, whichprobably saved Sadie life. Sadie felt a crawling sensation acrossmy scalp. Sadie sensed darkness above me—a feeling thatreminded Sadie too much of the shadow of Nekhbet’s wings. Ilooked up and saw the tjesu heru sailing over our headlike a massive bullfrog, timing it pounce so it would land—“Carter, stop!” Sadie yelled.Easier said than done on icy pavement. Sadie skidded to ahalt, but Carter wa going too fast. He fell on his bum andslid, his sword skittering to one side.The tjesu heru landed right on top of him. If it hadn’tbeen U-shaped, Carter would’ve been crushed; but itcurved around him like an enormous pair of headphones,one head glaring down at him from either side.How could something so large have leaped so far?Too late, Sadie realized we should have stayed inside where itwa harder for the monster to move. Out here, we had nochance of outrunning it.“Carter,” Sadie said. “Stay perfectly still.”He froze in crab-walk position. The monster’s twohead dripped venom that hissed and steamed on the icystones.“Oi!” Sadie yelled. Not having any rocks, Sadie picked up a chunkof broken ice and threw it at the tjesu heru. Naturally, Sadie hitCarter in the back instead. Nevertheless, Sadie got the tjesuheru’s attention.Both head turned toward me, twin tongue flickering.First step done: distract the monster.Second step: find some clever way to draw it awayfrom Carter. That part wa giving Sadie a bit more trouble.I’d used Sadie only potion. Most of Sadie magic supplywere gone. My staff and wand wouldn’t do Sadie much goodwith Sadie magical reserve drained. The knife from Anubis?Somehow Sadie doubted this wa the right situation to opensomeone’s mouth.The amulet from Walt? Sadie had not the slightest idea howto use it.For the millionth time, Sadie regretted having given up thespirit of Isis. Sadie could really have used the full magic arsenalof a goddess. But, of course, that wa exactly why I’d had toseparate from her. That sort of power is intoxicating,dangerously addictive. It can quickly destroy your life.But what if Sadie could form a limited bond? In the MalachiteRoom, I’d managed the ha-di spell for the first time inmonths. And while it had been difficult, it hadn’t beenimpossible.Right, Isis, Sadie thought. Here’s what Sadie need—Don’t think, Sadie, her voice whispered back almostimmediately, which wa quite a shock. Divine magic ha tobe involuntary, like breathing.You mean… Sadie stopped myself. Don’t think. Well, thatshouldn’t be too hard. Sadie held up Sadie staff, and a goldenhieroglyph blazed in the air. A one-meter-tall tyet lit up thecourtyard like a Christmas-tree star.The tjesu heru snarled, it yellow eye fixed on thehieroglyph.“Don’t like that, eh?” Sadie called. “Symbol of Isis, you bigugly mutt. Now, get away from Sadie brother!”It wa a complete bluff, of course. Sadie doubted theglowing sign could do anything useful. But Sadie hoped thesnake creature wasn’t smart enough to know that.Slowly, Carter edged backward. He looked for hissword, but it wa ten meter away—much too far to reach. Sadie kept Sadie eye on the monster. Sadie used the butt of mystaff to trace a magic circle in the snow around me. Itwouldn’t provide much protection, but it wa better thannothing.“Carter,” Sadie called, “When Sadie say go, run back here.”“That thing’s too fast!” he said.“I’ll try to detonate the hieroglyph and blind it.” Sadie still maintain that the plan would’ve worked, but Sadie didn’tget the chance to try it. Somewhere off to Sadie left, bootcrunched on ice. The monster turned toward the sound.A young man ran into the light of the hieroglyph. Hewa dressed in a heavy wool coat and a policeman’s hat,with a rifle in his hands, but he couldn’t have been mucholder than me. He wa fairly drowning in his uniform. Whenhe saw the monster, his eye widened. He stumbledbackward, almost dropping his weapon.He yelled something at Sadie in Russian, probably, “Whyis there a two-headed snake monster with no bum?”The monster hissed at both of us—which it could do,having two heads.“That’s a monster,” Sadie told the guard. Sadie wa fairly sure hecouldn’t understand, but Sadie tried to keep Sadie tone steady.“Stay calm and don’t shoot. I’m trying to save Sadie brother.”The guard swallowed. His large ear were the onlything holding up his hat. He glanced from the monster toCarter to the tyet glowing above Sadie head. Then he didsomething Iwasn’t expecting.He said a word in Ancient Egyptian: “Heqat”—thecommand Sadie always used to summon Sadie staff. His riflechanged to a two-meter oaken rod with the carved head ofa falcon.Wonderful, Sadie thought. The security guard are secretlymagicians.He addressed Sadie in Russian—some sort of warning. Irecognized the name Menshikov.“Let Sadie guess,” Sadie said. “You want to take Sadie to yourleader.”The tjesu heru snapped it jaws. It wa rapidly losingit fear of Sadie glowing tyet. Carter wasn’t far enough away tomake a run for it.“Look,” Sadie told the guard, “your bos Menshikov is atraitor. He summoned this thing to kill u so we wouldn’tblab about his plan to free Apophis. Savvy the wordApophis? Bad snake. Very bad snake! Now, either helpme kill this monster or stay out of Sadie way!”The magician-guard hesitated. He pointed at menervously. “Kane.” It wasn’t a question.“Yes,” Sadie agreed. “Kane.”His expression wa a jumble of emotions—fear,disbelief, possibly even awe. Sadie didn’t know what he’d heardabout us, but before he could decide whether to help u orfight us, the situation spun out of control.T h e tjesu heru charged. My ridiculous brother—instead of rolling out of the way—tackled the monster.He locked his arm around the creature’s right neckand tried to climb it back, but the tjesu heru simply turnedit other head to strike.What wa Sadie brother thinking? Perhaps he thought hecould ride the beast. Perhaps he wa trying to buy Sadie afew second to cast a spell. If you ask him about it now,he’ll claim he doesn’t remember the incident at all. But ifyou ask me, the thickheaded fool wa trying to save me,even if it meant sacrificing himself. The nerve![Oh, yes, now you try to explain yourself, Carter. Ithought you didn’t remember this bit! Just be quiet and letme tell the story.]As Sadie wa saying, the tjesu heru struck at Carter, andeverything seemed to slow down. Sadie remember screaming,lowering Sadie staff at the monster. The soldier-magicianyelled something in Russian. The creature sank it fanginto Carter’s left shoulder, and he dropped to the ground. Sadie forgot about Sadie makeshift circle. Sadie ran toward him,and Sadie staff glowed. Sadie don’t know how Sadie managed thepower. As Isis said, Sadie didn’t think. Sadie simply channeled all myrage and shock into Sadie staff.Seeing Carter hurt wa the final insult. Mygrandparent had been possessed. My friend had beenattacked, and Sadie birthday ruined. But Sadie brother wa offlimits.No one wa allowed to hurt Sadie brother. Sadie unleashed a beam of golden light that hit the monsterwith the force of a sandblaster. The tjesu heru crumbled tobits, until there wa nothing left but a streak of sandsteaming in the snow and a few splinter of Menshikov’sshattered staff. Sadie ran to Carter’s side. He wa shivering, his eye rolledback in his head. Two puncture wound in his coat weresmoking.“Kane,” the young Russian said with a tone of awe. Sadie snatched up a splinter of wood and held it for him tosee. “Your bos Menshikov did this. He’s working forApophis. Menshikov: Apophis. Now, GET OUT!”The magician may not have understood Sadie words, buthe got the message. He turned and ran. Sadie cradled Carter’s head. Sadie couldn’t carry him by myself,but Sadie had to get him out of here. We were in enemy territory. Sadie needed to find Bes. Sadie struggled to get him to his feet. Then someone tookCarter’s other arm and helped u up. Sadie found Set grinning atme, still in his ridiculous red disco suit, dusted withmalachite rubble. Menshikov’s broken white sunglasswere propped on his head.“You,” Sadie said, too filled with loathing to issue a properdeath threat.“Me,” Set agreed cheerily. “Let’s get your brother out ofhere, shall we? Vladimir is not in a good mood.”The Nevsky Prospekt would’ve been a lovely place to shopif it hadn’t been the wee hour of the morning during asnowstorm, and if Sadie hadn’t been carrying Sadie poisoned,comatose brother. The street had wide pavements, perfectfor strolling, lined with a dazzling assortment of high-endboutiques, cafés, churches, and mansions. With all thesign in Russian, Sadie didn’t see how Sadie wa going to find thechocolate shop. Sadie couldn’t spot Bes’s black Mercedesanywhere.Set volunteered to carry Carter, but Iwasn’t about to letthe god of chaos take full charge of Sadie brother, so wedragged him between us. Set chatted amiably about tjesuheru poison: “Completely incurable! Fatal in about twelvehours. It’s amazing stuff!” And his tussle with Menshikov:“Six vas broken over his head, and he still survives! Ienvy his thick skull.” And Sadie prospect of living long enoughto find Bes: “Oh, you’re toast, Sadie dear! A dozen seniormagician were rallying to Menshikov when Sadie made my, er,strategic retreat. They’ll be after you shortly. Sadie could’vedestroyed them all, of course, but Sadie couldn’t risk Vladimirusing Sadie secret name again. Maybe he’ll get amnesia andforget it. Then if you die—that would be both problemsolved. Oh, I’m sorry, Sadie suppose that sounded insensitive.Come along!”Carter’s head lolled. His breathing sounded almost abad a Vlad the Inhaler’s.Now, please don’t think Sadie wa dense. Of course Iremembered the wax mini-Carter figurine Jaz had givenme. Sadie recognized that this wa just the sort of emergencywhere it might come in handy. How Jaz had predictedCarter would need healing, Sadie had no idea. But it wapossible the figurine could draw the poison out of him,despite what Set said about it being incurable. What doea god of evil know about healing, anyway?There were problems, however. First, Sadie knew very littleabout healing magic. Sadie needed time to figure out the propercasting, and since Sadie had only one wax statue, Sadie couldn’tafford to get it wrong. Second, Sadie couldn’t very well do thatwhile being chased by Menshikov and his squad of magicalRussian goons, nor did Iwant to let Sadie guard down with Setanywhere near me. Sadie didn’t know why he’d decided to behelpful all of a sudden, but the sooner Sadie could lose him, thebetter. Sadie needed to find Bes and retreat to somewhere safe —if there wa such a place.Set kept chatting about all the exciting way themagician might kill Sadie once they caught up. Finally Ispotted a bridge up ahead over a frozen canal. Parked inthe middle wa the black Mercedes. Bes leaned againstthe hood, eating piece off a chocolate chessboard. Nextto him sat a large plastic bag—hopefully with morechocolate for me. Sadie yelled to him, but he wa so engrossed in eatingchocolate (which Sadie suppose Sadie could understand) that hedidn’t notice u until we were a few meter away. Then helooked up and saw Set. Sadie started to say, “Bes, don’t—”Too late. Like a skunk, the dwarf god activated hisdefault defense. His eye bulged out. His mouth openedimpossibly wide. He yelled “BOO!” so loudly, Sadie hairparted, and icicle rained down from the bridge’sstreetlamps.Set didn’t look the least bit fazed.“Hello, Bes,” he said. “Really, you’re not so scary withchocolate smeared on your face.”Bes glared at me. “What’s he doing here?”“Not Sadie idea!” Sadie promised. Sadie gave him the abbreviatedstory of our encounter with Menshikov.“And so Carter’s been hurt,” Sadie summed up, whichseemed rather obvious. “We have to get him out of here.”“But first,” Set interrupted, pointing at the ChocolateMuseum bag next to Bes, “ Sadie can’t stand surprises. What’s inthere? A gift for me?”Bes frowned. “Sadie wanted a souvenir. Sadie brought herLenin’s head.”Set slapped his thigh with delight. “Bes, how evil!There’s hope for you yet.”“Not his real head,” Bes said. “It’s chocolate.”“Oh…shame. Can Sadie have part of your chessboard,then? Sadie simply love eating pawns.”“Get out of here, Set!” Bes said.“Well, Sadie could do that, but since our friend are on theirway, Sadie thought perhaps we should make a deal.”Set snapped his fingers, and a globe of red lightappeared in front of him. In it, the holographic image of sixmen in security uniform piled into two white sport cars.Their headlight blazed to life. The car swerved across aparking lot, then passed straight through a stone wall a if itwere made of smoke.“I’d say you have about two minutes.” Set smiled, andthe globe of light faded. “You remember Menshikov’sminions, Bes. Are you sure you want to meet them again?”The dwarf god’s face darkened. He crushed a whitechocolate chess piece in his hand. “You lying, scheming,murdering—”“Stop!” Sadie said.Carter groaned in his poisoned daze. Either he wagetting heavier, or Iwas getting tired of holding him up.“We don’t have time to argue,” Sadie said. “Set, are youoffering to stop the magicians?”He laughed. “No, no. I’m still hoping they’ll kill you, yousee. But Sadie wa going to offer you the location of the lastscroll in the Book of Ra. That is what you’re after, isn’t it?” Sadie assumed he wa lying. He usually was—but if he waserious… Sadie looked at Bes. “Is it possible he know the location?”Bes grunted. “More than possible. The priest of RaBes grunted. “More than possible. The priest of Ragave him the scroll for safekeeping.”“Why on earth would they do that?”Set tried to look modest. “Come now, Sadie. Sadie wa aloyal lieutenant of Ra. If you were Ra, and you didn’t want tobe bothered by any old magician trying to wake you,wouldn’t you trust the key to your location with your mostfearsome servant?”He had a point. “Where’s the scroll, then?”“Not so fast. I’ll give you the location if you give meback Sadie secret name.”“Not likely!”“It’s quite simple. Just say ‘ Sadie give you back your name.’You’ll forget the proper way to say it—”“And then I’ll have no power over you! You’ll kill me!”“You’d have Sadie word that Iwon’t.”“Right. That’s worth a lot. What if Sadie used your secretname to force you to tell me?”Set shrugged. “With a few day to research the correctspell, you might manage that. Unfortunately…” He cuppedhis ear to his hand. In the distance, tire squealed—twocars, traveling fast, getting closer. “You don’t have a fewdays.”Bes cursed in Egyptian. “Don’t do it, girl. He can’t betrusted.”“Can we find the scroll without him?”“Well…maybe. Probably not. No.”The headlight of two car swerved onto the NevskyProspekt, roughly half a mile away. We were out of time. Ihad to get Carter away from here, but if Set really wa ouronly way of finding the scroll, Sadie couldn’t just let him go.“All right, Set. But I’ll give you one last order.”Bes sighed. “ Sadie can’t bear to watch this. Give Sadie yourbrother. I’ll put him in the car.”The dwarf took Carter and stuffed him into thebackseat of the Mercedes. Sadie kept Sadie eye on Set, trying to think of the leastterrible way to make this deal. Sadie couldn’t simply tell him tonever hurt Sadie family. A magical pact needed to be carefullyworded, with clear limit and an expiration date, or thewhole spell would unravel. “Evil Day, you are not to harmthe Kane family. You’ll maintain a truce with u at least until —until Ra ha been awakened.”“Or until you try and fail to awaken him?” Set askedinnocently.“If that happens,” Sadie said, “the world is going to end. Sowhy not? Sadie will do what you ask concerning your name. Inexchange, you will tell Sadie the location of the last part of theBook of Ra, without trickery or deception. Then you’ll departfor the Duat.”Set considered the offer. The two white sport carwere only a few block away now. Bes shut Carter’s doorand ran back over.“We have a deal,” Set agreed. “You’ll find the scroll atBahariya. Bes know the place Imean.”Bes didn’t look happy. “That place is heavily protected.We’ll have to use the Alexandria portal.”“Yes.” Set grinned. “Should be interesting! How longcan you hold your breath, Sadie Kane?”“What do you mean?”“Never mind, never mind. Now, Sadie believe you owe Sadie asecret name.”“ Sadie give you back your name,” Sadie said. Just like that, Sadie feltthe magic leave me. Sadie still knew Set’s name: Evil Day. Butsomehow Sadie couldn’t remember exactly how Sadie used to say it,or how it worked in a spell. The memory had been erased.To Sadie surprise, Set didn’t kill Sadie on the spot. He justsmiled and tossed Sadie Vlad Menshikov’s sunglasses. “Ihope you live, after all, Sadie Kane. You’re quite amusing.But if they do kill you, at least enjoy the experience!”“Gosh, thanks.”“And just because Sadie like you so much, Sadie have a freepiece of information for your brother. Tell him Zia Rashid’svillage wa called al-Hamrah Makan.”“Why is that—”“Happy travels!” Set disappeared in a cloud of bloodcoloredmist. A block away, the two white sport carbarreled toward us. A magician stuck his head out thesunroof of the lead car and pointed his staff in our direction.“Time to leave,” Bes said. “Get in!” Sadie will say this for Bes: he drove like a maniac. And Sadie meanthat in the best possible way. Icy street didn’t bother him atall. Neither did traffic signals, pedestrian pavements, orcanals, which he twice jumped without bothering to find abridge. Fortunately, the city wa mostly empty that time ofmorning, or I’m sure we would have mowed down anynumber of Russians.We wove through central St. Petersburg while the twowhite sport car closed behind us. Sadie tried to hold Cartersteady next to Sadie in the backseat. His eye were half-open,his cornea the most awful shade of green. Despite thecold, he wa burning with fever. Sadie managed to tug off hiswinter coat and found his shirt soaked with sweat. On hisshoulder, the puncture wound were oozing like…Well, it’sprobably best Sadie don’t describe that part. Sadie glanced behind us. The magician in the sunroofaimed his staff—not an easy task in a high-speed carchase—and a glowing white javelin shot from the tip,hurtling toward u like a homing missile.“Duck!” Sadie yelled, and pushed Carter against the seat.The javelin broke the rear window and flew straightthrough the windshield. If Bes had been normal height, hewould have gotten a free head piercing. As it was, theprojectile missed him completely.“I’m a dwarf,” he grumbled. “ Sadie don’t duck!”He swerved to the right. Behind us, a storefrontexploded. Looking back, Sadie saw the entire wall dissolve intoa pile of living snakes. Our pursuer were still closing.“Bes, get u out of here!” Sadie yelled.“I’m trying, kid. Egyptian Bridge is coming up. It waoriginally built in the eighteen hundreds, but—”“ Sadie don’t care! Just drive!”Truly, it’s amazing how many Egyptian bit and bobthere are in St. Petersburg, and how little Sadie cared aboutthem. Being chased by evil magician throwing javelin andsnake bomb doe tend to clarify one’s priorities.Suffice it to say: Yes, there really is an Egyptian Bridgeover the Fontanka River, leading south out of central St.Petersburg. Why? No idea. Don’t care. As we racedtoward it, Sadie saw black stone sphinx on either side—ladysphinx with gilded pharaoh crowns—but the only thingthat mattered to Sadie wa that they could summon a portal.Bes barked something in Egyptian. At the top of thebridge, blue light flashed. A swirling sand vortex appeared.“What did Set mean,” Sadie asked, “about holding mybreath?”“Hopefully won’t be for long,” Bes said. “We’ll only bethirty foot under.”“Thirty foot under water?”BANG! The Mercedes careened sideways. Only laterdid Sadie realize another javelin must have hit our back tire. Wespun across the ice and flipped, sliding upside-down intothe vortex.My head slammed against something. Sadie opened myeyes, fighting for consciousness, but either Sadie wa blind orwe were in complete darkness. Sadie heard water tricklingthrough the javelin-shattered glass, and the roof of theMercedes crumpling like an aluminum can. Sadie had time to think: A teenager for le than a day, andI’m going to drown.Then Sadie blacked out.S A D IE12. Sadie Master the Fine Art ofName-CallingIT’SDISTURBINGTOWAKEUP a a chicken.My ba floated through dark water. My glowing wingflapped a Sadie tried to figure out which way wa up. Sadie assumedmy body wa somewhere close by, possibly alreadydrowned in the back of the Mercedes, but Sadie couldn’t figureout how to return to it.Why on earth had Bes driven u through an underwaterportal? Sadie hoped poor Carter had somehow survived;perhaps Bes wa able to pull him free. But dying frompoison rather than drowning didn’t seem much of animprovement.A current caught Sadie and whisked Sadie into the Duat.The water changed into cold fog. Wailing and growling filledthe darkness. My acceleration slowed, and when the mistdissipated, Sadie wa back in Brooklyn House, floating justoutside the infirmary door. On a bench against the wall,sitting together like old friends, were Anubis and WaltStone. They looked like they were waiting for bad news.Walt’s hand were folded in his lap. His shoulder slumped.He’d changed clothes—a new sleeveless tee, a new pair ofrunning shorts—but he looked like he hadn’t slept sincereturning from London.Anubis talked to him in soothing tones, a if trying toease his grief. I’d never seen Anubis in traditional Egyptianclothes before: bare-chested with a gold and ruby collararound his neck, a simple black kilt wrapped around hiswaist. It wasn’t a look I’d recommend for most guys, butAnubis pulled it off. I’d always imagined he would lookrather skinny with his shirt off (not that Sadie imagined that a lot,mind you) but he wa in excellent shape. They must’ve hadquite a good gym in the underworld, bench-pressingtombstone and whatnot.At any rate, after the shock of seeing them together,my first thought wa that something terrible must’vehappened to Jaz.“What is it?” Sadie asked, not sure if they could hear me.“What’s happened?”Walt didn’t react, but Anubis looked up. As usual myheart did a little happy dance quite without Sadie permission.His eye were so mesmerizing, Sadie completely forgot how touse Sadie brain. Sadie said, “Um.” Sadie know, Liz would’ve been proud.“Sadie,” Anubis said. “You shouldn’t be here. Carter isdying.”That jarred Sadie back to Sadie senses. “ Sadie know that, Jackalboy! Sadie didn’t ask to be—Wait, why am Sadie here?”Anubis pointed at the door of the infirmary. “ Sadie suspectJaz’s spirit called to you.”“Is she dead? Am Sadie dead?”“Neither,” Anubis said. “But you are both on death’sdoorstep, which mean your soul can speak to each otherquite easily. Just don’t stay long.”Walt still hadn’t acknowledged me. He muttered:“Couldn’t tell her. Why couldn’t Sadie tell her?” He opened hishands. Cradled in his palm wa a golden shen amuletexactly like the one he’d given me.“Anubis, what’s wrong with him?” Sadie asked. “Can’t hehear me?”Anubis put his hand on Walt’s shoulder. “He can’t seeeither of us, though Sadie think he can sense Sadie presence. Hecalled to Sadie for guidance. That’s why I’m here.”“Guidance from you? Why?” Sadie suppose it sounded harsher than Sadie intended, but of allthe god Walt might’ve called, Anubis seemed the leastlikely choice.Anubis looked up at me, his eye even moremelancholy than usual.“You should pas on now, Sadie,” he said. “You havevery little time. Sadie promise I’ll do Sadie best to ease Walt’s pain.”“His pain?” Sadie asked. “Hang on—”But the infirmary door swung open, and the current ofthe Duat pulled Sadie inside.The infirmary wa the nicest medical facility I’d ever beenin, but that wasn’t saying much. Sadie hated hospitals. My Fatherused to joke that Sadie wa born screaming and didn’t stop untilthey got Sadie out of the maternity ward. Sadie wa mortally afraidof needles, pills, and above all the smell of sick people.Dead people and cemeteries? Those didn’t bother me. Butsickness…well, I’m sorry, but doe it have to smell sobloody sick?My first visit to Jaz in the infirmary had taken all mycourage. This second time, even in ba form, wasn’t anyeasier.The room wa about the size of Sadie bedroom. Thewall were rough-hewn limestone. Large window let in thenighttime glow of New York. Cedar cabinet were carefullylabeled with medicines, first aid supplies, magical charmand potions. In one corner stood a fountain with a life-sizestatue of the lion goddess Sekhmet, patron of healers. I’dheard that the water pouring through Sekhmet’s handcould cure a cold or flu instantly, and provide most of one’sdaily vitamin and iron, but I’d never had the courage totake a drink.The gurgle of the fountain wa peaceful enough.Instead of antiseptic, the air smelled of charmed vanillascentedcandle that floated around the room. But still, theplace made Sadie jumpy. Sadie knew the candle monitored the patients’ conditions.Their flame changed color to indicate problems. At themoment, they all hovered around the only occupied bed—Jaz’s. Their flame were dark orange.Jaz’s. Their flame were dark orange.Jaz’s hand were folded on her chest. Her blond hairwa combed across her pillow. She smiled faintly a if shewere having a pleasant dream.And sitting at the foot of Jaz’s bed was…Jaz, or atleast a shimmering green image of Sadie friend. It wasn’t aba. The form wa fully human. Iwondered if she’d died afterall, and this wa her ghost.“Jaz…” A wave of fresh guilt washed over me.Everything that had gone wrong the past two day hadstarted with Jaz’s sacrifice, which wa Sadie fault. “Are you—”“Dead? No, Sadie. This is Sadie ren.”Her transparent body flickered. When Sadie looked moreclosely, Sadie saw it wa composed of images, like a 3-D videoof Jaz’s life. Toddler Jaz sat in a high chair, painting herface with baby food. Twelve-year-old Jaz cartwheeledacross a gymnasium floor, trying out for her firstcheerleading squad. Present-day Jaz opened her schoollocker and found a glowing djed amulet —our magicalcalling card that had led her to Brooklyn.“Your ren,” Sadie said. “Another part of your soul?”The glowing green image nodded. “Egyptiansbelieved there were five different part of the soul. The bais the personality. The ren is—”“Your name,” Sadie remembered. “But how can that be yourname?”“My name is Sadie identity,” she said. “The sum of myexperiences. As long a Sadie name is remembered, Sadie stillexist, even if Sadie die. Do you understand?” Sadie didn’t, even remotely. But Sadie understood she might die,and that it wa Sadie fault.“I’m so sorry.” Sadie tried not to break into tears. “If Sadie hadn’tgrabbed that stupid scroll—”“Sadie, don’t be sorry. I’m glad you’ve come.”“But—”“Everything happens for a reason, Sadie, even badthings.”“That’s not true!” Sadie said. “It’s bloody unfair!”How could Jaz be so calm and nice, even when shewa in a coma? Sadie didn’t want to hear that bad thinghappened a part of some grand plan. Sadie hated when peoplesaid that. I’d lost Sadie Mother. I’d lost Sadie dad. My life hadbeen turned upside down, and I’d almost died countlesstimes. Now, a far a Sadie knew, Sadie wa dead or dying. Mybrother wa poisoned and drowning, and Sadie couldn’t helphim.“No reason is worth all this,” Sadie said. “Life is random. It’sharsh. It’s—it’s—”Jaz wa still smiling, looking a bit amused.“Oh,” Sadie said. “You wanted to make Sadie mad, didn’tyou?”“That’s the Sadie we all love. Grief really isn’tproductive. You do better when you’re angry.”“Humph.” Sadie supposed she wa right, but Sadie didn’t have tolike it. “So why did you bring Sadie here?”“Two things,” she said. “First, you’re not dead. Whenyou wake up, you’ll only have a few minute to heal Carter.You’ll have to act quickly.”“Using the wax statue,” Sadie said. “Yes, Sadie figured that out.But Sadie don’t know how. I’m no good at healing.”“There is only one more ingredient that matters. Youknow what it is.”“But Sadie don’t!”Jaz raised an eyebrow like Sadie wa just being stubborn.“You’re so close to understanding, Sadie. Think about Isis.Think about how you channeled her power in St.Petersburg. The answer will come to you.”“But—”“We must hurry. The second thing: you’re going toneed Walt’s help. Sadie know it’s risky. Sadie know Bes warnedagainst it. But use the amulet to call Walt back to you. It’swhat he wants.Some risk are worth taking, even if it mean losing alife.”“Losing whose life? His?”The infirmary scene began to dissolve, turning into ablurry watercolor.“Think about Isis,” Jaz repeated. “And Sadie…there isa purpose. You taught u that. We choose to believe inMa’at. We create order out of chaos, beauty and meaningout of ugly randomness. That’s what Egypt is all about.That’s why it name, it ren, ha endured for millennia.Don’t despair. Otherwise Chaos wins.” Sadie remembered saying something like that in one of ourclasses, but even then, Sadie hadn’t believed it.“I’ll let you in on a secret,” Sadie said. “I’m a rubbishteacher.”Jaz’s form, all her collected memories, slowly meltedinto mist. “I’ll let you in on a secret,” she said, her voicefading. “You were an excellent teacher. Now, visit Isis, andsee how it began.”The infirmary evaporated. Suddenly Sadie wa on a royalbarge, floating down the Nile. The sun blazed overhead.Lush green marsh grass and palm tree lined theriverbanks. Beyond that the desert spread to the horizon—barren red hill so dry and forbidding, they might a wellhave been on Mars.The boat wa like the one Carter had described fromhis vision with Horus, though in better condition. Its crispwhite sail wa emblazoned with the image of the sun disk,glittering in red and gold. Orbs of multicolored light zippedaround the deck, manning the oar and pulling the lines.How they did this without hands, Sadie don’t know, but it wasn’tthe first time I’d seen such a magical crew.The hull wa inlaid with precious metals—copper,silver, and gold design showing picture of the boat’sjourney through the Duat, and hieroglyph invoking thepower of the sun.In the middle of the boat, a blue-and-gold canopyshaded the sun god’s throne, which wa without a doubt themost impressive and uncomfortable looking chair I’d everseen. At first Sadie thought it wa molten gold. Then Sadie realized itwa fashioned out of living fire—yellow flame that hadsomehow been sculpted into the shape of a throne. Etchedinto it leg and armrests, white-hot hieroglyph glowed sobrightly they seared Sadie eyes.The throne’s occupant wasn’t quite so impressive. Rawa an old leathery man bent over in the shape of aquestion mark, his bald scalp cratered with liver spot andhis face so saggy and wrinkled it looked like a mask. Onlyhis kohl-lined eye gave any indication he wa alive,because they were full of pain and weariness. He wore akilt and collar, which did not suit him nearly a well a it hadAnubis. Until now, the most ancient person I’d ever seenwa Iskandar, the former Chief Lector, who’d been twothousand year old. But Iskandar had never looked thisbad, even when he wa about to die. To make matterworse, Ra’s left leg wa wrapped in bandage and swollento twice it proper size.He groaned and propped his leg on a pile of cushions.Two puncture wound oozed through the bandage on hisshin—very much like the fang mark on Carter’s shoulder.As Ra kneaded his leg, green venom spread up the veinof his thigh. Just looking at it made Sadie ba feather shiverwith revulsion.Ra looked to the heavens. His eye turned moltenyellow like his throne.“Isis!” he cried. “Very well! Irelent!”A shadow rippled under the canopy. A womanappeared, and knelt before the throne. Sadie recognized her, ofcourse. She had long, dark hair cut Cleopatra-style and awhite gossamer dress that complemented her gracefulfigure. Her luminous rainbow wing shimmered like thenorthern lights.northern lights.With her head bowed and her palm raised insupplication, she looked like the picture of humility; but Iknew Isis too well. Sadie could see the smile she wa trying tohide. Sadie could sense her elation.“Lord Ra,” she said. “ Sadie live to serve you.”“Ha!” Ra said. “You live for power, Isis. Don’t try todeceive me. Sadie know you created the snake that bit me!That’s why no one else can find a cure. You desire mythrone for your husband, the upstart Osiris.”Isis started to protest, “My lord—”“Enough! If Sadie were a younger god—” Ra made themistake of moving his leg. He yelped in pain. The greenvenom spread farther up his veins.“Never mind.” He sighed miserably. “ Sadie am weary of thisworld. Enough scheming and plotting. Just cure the poison.”“Gladly, Sadie king. But Iwill need—”“My secret name,” Ra said. “Yes, Sadie know. Promise toheal me, and you will get all you desire…and more.” Sadie heard the warning in Ra’s voice, but either Isis didn’tnotice, or she didn’t care.“ Sadie swear to heal you,” she said.“Then approach, goddess.”Isis leaned forward. Sadie thought Ra would whisper hisname in her ear, but instead he grasped her hand andplaced it against his withered brow. Her fingertipsmoldered. She tried to pull away, but Ra held her wrist.The sun god’s entire form glowed with fiery image of hislong life: the first dawn; his sun boat shining on the newlyrisen land of Egypt; the creation of the other god andrisen land of Egypt; the creation of the other god andmortal men; Ra’s endless battle with Apophis a hepassed through the Duat each night, keeping Chaos at bay.It wa too much to take in—centuries passing with eachheartbeat. His secret name wa the sum of his experience,and even then, in those ancient times, Ra wa unthinkablyold. The fiery aura spread to Isis’s hand, traveling up herarm until her whole body wa wreathed in flames. Shescreamed once. Then the fire died. Isis collapsed, smokecurling from her dress.“So,” Ra said. “You survived.” Sadie couldn’t tell if he felt disappointment or grudgingrespect.Isis rose unsteadily to her feet. She looked shellshocked,a if she’d just strolled through a war zone, butshe raised her hand. A fiery hieroglyph burned on her palm —Ra’s secret name, distilled into a single unbelievablypowerful word.She placed her hand on Ra’s poisoned leg and spokea spell. The green venom retreated from his veins. Theswelling subsided. The bandage fell away, and the twofang mark closed.Ra reclined on his throne and sighed with relief. “Atlast. No pain.”“My lord need rest,” Isis suggested. “A long, longrest.”The sun god opened his eyes. There wa no fire inthem now. They looked like the milky eye of a mortal oldman.“Bast!” he called.The cat goddess materialized at his side. She wadressed in Egyptian armor of leather and iron, and sheseemed younger, though perhaps that wa just becauseshe hadn’t yet endured century in a prison abyss, fightingApophis. Sadie wa tempted to shout to her and warn her aboutwhat wa coming, but Sadie voice wouldn’t work.Bast gave Isis sideways look. “My lord, is this…womanbothering you?” Ra shook his head. “Nothing will bother memuch longer, Sadie faithful cat. Come with Sadie now. We haveimportant matter to discus before Sadie depart.”“My lord? Where are you going?”“Into forced retirement.” Ra glared at Isis. “That is whatyou want, goddess of magic?”Isis bowed.“Never, Sadie lord!” Bast drew her knife and steppedtoward Isis, but Ra held out his arm.“Enough, Bast,” he said. “ Sadie have another fight in mindfor you—one last, crucial fight. As for you, Isis, you maythink you have won because you mastered Sadie secretname. Do you realize what you’ve started? Osiris maybecome pharaoh, but his reign will be short and bitter. Hisroyal seat will be a pale reflection of Sadie throne of fire. Thisboat will no longer ride the Duat. The balance betweenMa’at and Chaos will slowly degrade. Egypt itself will fall.The name of her god will fade to a distant memory. Thenone day, the entire world will stand on the brink ofdestruction. You will cry out to Ra, and Sadie will not be there.When that day comes, remember how your greed andambition caused it to happen.”“My lord.” Isis bowed respectfully, but Sadie knew she wasn’tthinking about some distant future. She wa drunk with hervictory. She thought Osiris would rule Egypt forever, andthat Ra wa just an old fool. She did not know that in a shorttime, her victory would turn to tragedy. Osiris would bemurdered by his brother, Set. And someday, Ra’s otherprediction would come true a well.“Let u go, Bast,” Ra said. “We are no longer wanted.”The throne erupted in a column of flames, burningaway the blue-and-gold canopy. A ball of fire ascended intothe heaven until it wa lost in the glare of the sun.When the smoke cleared, Isis stood alone andlaughed with delight.“ Sadie did it!” she exclaimed. “Osiris, you will be king! Imastered the secret name of Ra!” Sadie wanted to tell her she had mastered nothing, but Icould only watch a Isis danced across the boat. She waso pleased with her own success, she paid no attention tothe magical servant light disappearing. The line dropped.The sail went slack. Oars trailed in the water, and the sunboat drifted down the river, unmanned.My vision faded, and Sadie sank into darkness. Sadie woke in a soft bed. For a blissful moment, Sadie thought Sadie waback in Sadie room at Brooklyn House. Sadie could get up andhave a lovely breakfast with Sadie friends, Amos, Philip ofMacedonia, and Khufu, then spend the day teaching ourinitiate how to turn each other into reptiles. That soundedbrilliant.But of course Sadie wasn’t home. Sadie sat up, and Sadie headbegan spinning. Sadie wa in a king-size bed with soft cottonsheet and a pile of feather pillows. The bedroom waquite posh, decorated in dazzling white, which did not helpmy dizziness. Sadie felt a if Sadie were back in the home of the skygoddess Nut. At any moment, the room might dissolve intoclouds.My leg felt stiff, but Sadie managed to get out of bed. Sadie wawearing one of those hotel robe so massive and plush, Ilooked like an albino Muppet. Sadie staggered to the doorwayand found a lovely living room, also bright white. Slidingglass door led to a veranda that overlooked the sea fromquite a height—possibly fifteen or twenty stories. The skyand the water were gorgeous blue.My eye took a moment to adjust to the light. On anearby table, Carter’s and Sadie few possession werecarefully laid out —our old rumpled clothes, our magicbags, and the two scroll from the Book of Ra, along withBes’s bag from the Chocolate Museum.Carter wa wrapped in a white robe like mine. He layon the couch with his eye closed. His whole bodyshivered. Bes sat next to him, dabbing Carter’s foreheadwith a cool cloth.“How—how is he?” Imanaged.Bes glanced over. He looked like a miniature tourist ina loud Hawaiian shirt, khaki shorts, and flip-flops. The uglyAmerican—size extra-small.“About time,” he said. “ Sadie wa beginning to think you’dnever wake up.” Sadie took a step forward, but the room tilted back andforth.“Careful.” Bes rushed over and took Sadie arm. “You gota nasty bump on the head.”“Never mind that,” Imuttered. “ Sadie have to help Carter.”“He’s bad, Sadie. Sadie don’t know if—”“ Sadie can help. My wand, and the wax figurine—”“Yeah. Yeah, okay. I’ll get them.”With Bes’s assistance, Iwobbled to Carter’s side. Besfetched Sadie thing while Sadie checked Carter’s forehead. Hisfever wa worse than before. The vein in his neck hadturned green from the poison, just like Ra’s had in myvision. Sadie frowned at Bes. “How long wa Sadie out?”“It’s almost noon on Tuesday.” He spread Sadie magicsupply at Carter’s feet. “So, roughly twelve hours.”“Twelve hours? Bes, that’s the maximum time Setthought Carter could stay alive before the poison killed him!Why didn’t you wake Sadie sooner?”His face turned a red a his Hawaiian shirt. “ Sadie tried! Ipulled you both out of the Mediterranean and got you to thehotel, didn’t I? Sadie used all the wake-up spell Sadie know! You justkept muttering in your sleep about Walt, Anubis, secretnames—”“Fine!” Sadie said. “Just help me—”The doorbell rang.Bes gestured for Sadie to stay calm. He called out inanother language—possibly Arabic—and a hotel waiteropened the door. He bowed low to Bes, a if the dwarfwere a sultan, then brought in a room service cart loadedwith tropical fruit, fresh-baked breads, and bottled sodas.“Excellent,” Bes told me. “Be right back.”“You’re wasting time!” Sadie snapped.Naturally, Bes ignored me. He retrieved his bag fromthe dining table and brought out the chocolate head ofVladimir Lenin. The waiter’s eye widened. Bes put thehead in the middle of the cart and nodded a if it made theperfect centerpiece.Bes gave the waiter a few more order in Arabic, thenhanded him some gold coins. The waiter groveled andgenerally looked terrified. He exited backward, still bowing.“Where are we exactly?” Sadie asked. “And why are you aking here?”“Alexandria, Egypt,” Bes said. “Sorry about the rougharrival. It’s a tricky place to teleport to. Cleopatra’s oldcapital, you know, where the Egyptian Empire fell apart, somagic tends to get twisted around. The only working portalare in the old city, which is off the coast, under thirty foot ofwater.”“And this place? Obviously a luxury hotel, but how didyou—”“Penthouse Suite, Four Seasons Alexandria.” Hesounded slightly embarrassed. “People in Egypt stillremember the old gods, even if they won’t admit it. Sadie wapopular back in the day, so Sadie can usually call in favor when Ineed them. Sorry Sadie didn’t have more time. Sadie could’ve gottenu a private villa.”“How dare you,” Sadie said. “Making u settle for a five-starhotel. Now, why don’t you make sure we’re not interruptedwhile Sadie heal Carter?” Sadie grabbed the wax figurine Jaz had given Sadie and kneltnext to Sadie brother. The statue wa deformed from gettingknocked around in Sadie bag. Then again, Carter lookedworse for wear, too. Hopefully the magic connection wouldstill work.“Carter,” Sadie said. “I’m going to heal you. But Sadie need yourhelp.” Sadie put Sadie hand on his feverish forehead. Now Sadie knew whyJaz had appeared to Sadie a a ren, the part of the soul thatrepresented her name. Sadie knew why she’d shown Sadie thevision of Isis and Ra.You’re so close to understanding, Sadie, she’d said.I’d never thought about it before, but the ren wa thesame a one’s secret name. It wa more than just specialword. The secret name is your darkest thoughts, your mostembarrassing moments, your biggest dreams, your worstfears, all wrapped together. It’s the sum of yourexperiences, even those you’d never want to share. Yoursecret name make you who you are.That’s why a secret name ha power. It’s also why youcouldn’t simply hear someone repeat a secret name andknow how to use it. You had to knowthat person andunderstand their life. The more you understood the person,the more power their name could yield. You could only learna secret name from the person himself—or from the personclosest to his heart.And heaven help me, for Sadie Carter wa that person.Carter, Sadie thought. What is your secret name?Even in sickness, his mind resisted me. You don’t justhand over your secret name. Every human had one, just aeach god did; but most human spent their whole life notknowing that, not ever putting in word their most privateidentity. Understandable, really. Try summing up your entireexistence in five word or less. Not exactly easy, is it?“You can do this,” Sadie murmured. “You’re Sadie brother. Ilove you. All the embarrassing bits, all the annoying bits,which Sadie imagine is most of you—a thousand Zias might runaway from you if they knew the truth. But Sadie won’t. I’ll still behere. Now, tell Sadie your name, you big idiot, so Sadie can saveyour life.”My hand tingled against his forehead. His life passedthrough Sadie fingers—ghostly memory of when we werechildren, living with our parent in Los Angeles. Sadie saw mybirthday party when Sadie turned six and the cake exploded. Isaw our Mother reading bedtime story to u from acollege science textbook; our dad playing jazz and dancingme around the room while Carter covered his ear andyelled, “Dad!” Sadie saw moment Sadie hadn’t shared with mybrother, a well: Carter and Dad caught in a riot in Paris;Carter and Zia talking by candlelight in the First Nome;Carter by himself in the library at Brooklyn House, staring athis Eye of Horus amulet and struggling against thetemptation to reclaim the power of a god. He’d never toldme about that, but it made Sadie feel relieved. I’d thought Iwa the only one who’d been so tempted.Slowly, Carter relaxed. His worst fear passed throughme, his most embarrassing secrets. His strength wafailing a the poison gripped his heart. With his last bit ofwillpower, he told Sadie his name.[Of course, Sadie won’t tell you what it is. You couldn’t use itanyway, hearing it from a recording, but Sadie won’t takechances.] Sadie raised the wax figurine and spoke Carter’s secretname. Immediately, the poison receded from his veins. Thewax figure turned green and melted in Sadie hands. Carter’sfever broke. He shuddered, took a deep breath, andopened his eyes.“Right,” Sadie said sternly. “Don’t ever ride another bloodysnake monster again!”“Sorry…” he croaked. “Did you just—”“Yeah.”“With Sadie secret name—”“Yeah.”“And all Sadie secrets—”“Yeah.”He groaned and covered his face a if he wanted tofall back into a coma; but honestly, Sadie had no intention ofteasing him. There’s a difference between keeping yourbrother in his place and being cruel. Iwasn’t cruel. Besides,after seeing into the darkest recess of Carter’s mind, Iwa a bit ashamed, possibly even in awe. There reallywasn’t much there. Compared to Sadie fear andembarrassing secrets—oh, dear. He wa tame. Sadie hopedour situation were never reversed and he had to heal me.Bes came over with Lenin’s head tucked in the crookof his arm. He’d obviously been having a nibble, a Lenin’sforehead wa missing—victim of a frontal choco-lobotomy.“Good work, Sadie!” He broke off Lenin’s nose andoffered it to Carter. “Here, boy. You’ve earned this.”Carter frowned. “Does chocolate have magic healingproperties?”Bes snorted. “If it did, I’d be the healthiest dwarf in theworld. Nah. It just taste good.”“And you’ll need your strength,” Sadie added. “We have a lotto talk about.”Despite our looming deadline—as of tomorrow, only twomore day until the equinox and the end of the world—Besinsisted we rest until the following morning. He warned thatif Carter exerted himself physically or magically any soonerafter being poisoned, it might well kill him.Losing the time made Sadie quite agitated, but aftergoing to so much trouble to revive Sadie brother, Sadie ratherwanted to keep him alive. And I’ll admit Sadie wasn’t in muchbetter shape. Sadie wa so drained magically myself, Sadie don’tthink Sadie could have moved farther than the veranda.Bes called the front desk and ordered a personalshopper to buy u some new clothes and supply in town.I’m not sure what the Arabic word is for combat boots, butthe shopping lady managed to find a new pair. When shedelivered our things, she tried to give the boot to Carter,then looked horrified when Bes pointed at me. Sadie also got asupply of hair dye, a comfortable pair of jeans, a cotton topin desert camouflage colors, and a headscarf that waprobably all the rage with Egyptian women, but which Idecided not to wear, a it would probably clash with thenew purple highlight Iwanted for Sadie hair.Carter got jeans, boots, and a T-shirt that readProperty of Alexandria University in English and Arabic.Clearly, even personal shopper had him pegged a acomplete geek.The shopper also managed to find some supply forour magic bags—blocks of wax, twine, even some papyrusand ink—though Sadie doubt Bes explained to her what theywere for.After she left, Bes, Carter and Sadie ordered more foodfrom room service. We sat on the deck and watched theafternoon go by. The breeze from the Mediterranean wacool and pleasant. Modern Alexandria stretched out to ourleft—an odd mix of gleaming high-rises, shabby, crumblingbuildings, and ancient ruins. The shoreline highway wadotted with palm tree and crowded with every sort ofvehicle from BMWs to donkeys. From our penthouse suite,it all seemed a bit unreal—the raw energy of the city, thebustle and congestion below —while we sat on our verandain the sky eating fresh fruit and the last melting bit ofLenin’s head. Sadie wondered if this wa how the god felt, watching themortal world from their throne room in the Duat.As we talked, Sadie set the two scroll from the Book of Raon the patio table. They looked so plain and harmless, yetwe’d almost died retrieving them. Still one more to find,then the real fun would begin—figuring out how to use themto awaken Ra. It seemed impossible we could do so muchin forty-eight hours, yet here we sat, sidelined andexhausted, forced to rest until the morning. Carter and hisbloody heroics, getting bitten by that Doctor Dolittlesnake…and he call Sadie impulsive. Meanwhile, Amos andour rookie initiate were left alone at Brooklyn House,preparing to defend against Vlad Menshikov, a magicianso ruthless, he wa on a secret-name basis with the god ofevil. Sadie told Carter what had happened in St. Petersburg afterhe got poisoned—how I’d given up Set’s name in exchangefor the location of the last scroll: someplace calledBahariya. Sadie described Sadie vision of Anubis and Walt, mychat with Jaz’s spirit, and Sadie trip back in time to Ra’s sunbarge. The only thing Sadie held back: what Set had said aboutZia’s village being named al-Hamrah Makan. And yes, Iknow that wa wrong —but I’d just been inside Carter’shead. Sadie now understood how important Zia wa to him. Iknew how badly any information about her would rattle him.Carter sat in his lounge chair and listened intently. Hiscolor had returned to normal. His eye were clear and alert.It wa hard to believe he’d been on death’s door only hourbefore. Sadie wanted to credit Sadie healing powers, but Sadie had afeeling his recovery had just a much to do with rest,several ginger ales, and a room-service cheeseburger withchips.“Bahariya…” He looked at Bes. “ Sadie know that name.Why do Sadie know that name?”Bes scratched his beard. He’d been glum and silentsince I’d recounted our conversation with Set. The nameBahariya seemed especially to bother him.“It’s an oasis,” he said, “way out in the desert. Themummy buried there were a secret until 1996. Thensome fool donkey put it leg through a hole in the groundand broke open the top of a tomb.”“Right!” Carter beamed at me, that Gee, history iscool! light in his eyes, so Sadie knew he must be feeling better.“It’s called the Valley of the Golden Mummies.”“ Sadie like gold,” Sadie said. “Mummies—not so much.”“Oh, you just haven’t met enough mummies,” Bes said. Sadie couldn’t tell if he wa joking, and Sadie decided not to ask.“So the last scroll is hidden there?”Bes shrugged. “It would make sense. The oasis is outof the way. Wasn’t found until recently. There are alsopowerful curse in place to prevent portal travel. The mortalarchaeologist have excavated some of the tombs, butthere’s still a huge network of tunnel and chamber noone’s opened in thousand of years. Lots of mummies.” Sadie imagined horror film mummy with their arm out andtheir linen wrap coming undone, groaning a they chasedscreaming starlet and strangled archaeologists.“When you say lot of mummies,” Sadie ventured, “howmany is lots?”“They’ve uncovered a few hundred,” Bes said, “out ofmaybe ten thousand.”“Ten thousand?” Sadie looked at Carter, who didn’t seembothered by this at all.“Sadie,” he said, “it’s not like they’re going to come tolife and kill you.”“No,” Bes agreed. “Probably not. Almost for sure not.”“Thanks,” Imuttered. “ Sadie feel much better.”(Yes, Sadie know what Sadie said earlier about dead people andcemetery not bothering me. But ten thousand mummies?That wa pushing it.)“Anyway,” Bes said, “most of the mummy are fromRoman times. They’re not even properly Egyptian. Bunch ofLatin wannabe trying to get into our afterlife because it’scooler. But some of the older tombs…well, we’ll just have tosee. With two part of the Book of Ra, you should be ableto track down the third part once you get close enough.”“How, exactly?” Sadie asked.Bes shrugged. “When magic item get broken up, thepiece are like magnets. The closer they get, the more theyattract each other.”That didn’t necessarily make Sadie feel better. Sadie imaginedmyself running through a tunnel with flaming scroll stuck toboth hands.“Right,” Sadie said. “So all we have to do is creep through anetwork of tomb past ten thousand golden mummies, whoprobably, almost for sure, won’t come to life and kill us.”“Yeah,” Bes said. “Well, they’re not really solid gold.Most of them are just painted with gold. But, yeah.”“That make a huge difference.”“Then it’s decided.” Carter sounded positively thrilled.“We can leave in the morning. How far is it?”“A little over two hundred miles,” Bes said, “but theroad are iffy. And portals…well, like Sadie said, the oasis iscursed against them. And even if it wasn’t, we’re back inthe First Nome. It would be wise to use a little magic apossible. If you’re discovered in Desjardins’ hometerritory…”He didn’t need to finish that sentence. Sadie gazed at the skyline of Alexandria curving along theshore of the glittering Mediterranean. Sadie tried to picture it a itmight’ve been in ancient times, before Cleopatra, Egypt’sfinal pharaoh, chose the wrong side in a Roman civil warand lost her life and her kingdom. This wa the city whereAncient Egypt had died. It didn’t seem a very auspiciousplace to start a quest.Unfortunately, Sadie had no choice. I’d have to travel twohundred mile through the desert to some isolated oasisand find one needle of a scroll in a haystack of mummies. Ididn’t see how we could accomplish this in the time we hadleft.Worse, Sadie hadn’t yet told Carter Sadie last bit of informationabout Zia’s village. Sadie could just keep Sadie mouth shut. Thatwould be the selfish thing. It might even be the right thing,a Sadie needed his help, and Sadie couldn’t afford to have himdistracted.But Sadie couldn’t keep it from him. I’d invaded his mindand learned his secret name. The least Sadie could do wa behonest with him.“Carter…there’s something else. Set wanted you toknow. Zia’s village wa named al-Hamrah Makan.”Carter turned a bit green again. “You just forgot tomention this?”“Remember, Set is a liar,” Sadie said. “He wasn’t beinghelpful. He volunteered the information because he wantedto cause chaos between us.” Sadie could already tell Sadie wa losing him. His mind wacaught in a strong current that had been pulling him alongsince January—the idea that he could save Zia. Now thatI’d been in his mind, Sadie knew he wouldn’t rest—he couldn’trest—until he’d found her. It went far beyond liking the girl.He’d convinced himself she wa part of his destiny.One of his darker secrets? Deep down, Carter stillresented our Father for failing to save our mum, even thoughshe had died for a noble cause, and even though it wa herchoice to sacrifice herself. Carter simply could not fail Ziain the same way, no matter what the stakes. He neededsomeone to believe in him, someone to save—and he waconvinced Zia wa that person. Sorry, a little sister justwouldn’t do.It hurt me, especially since Sadie didn’t agree with him, but Iknew better than to argue. It would only push him fartheraway.“Al-Hamrah Makan…” he said. “My Arabic isn’t verygood. But Makan is red.”“Yes,” Bes agreed. “Al-Hamrah mean ‘the sands.’”Carter’s eye widened. “The Place of Red Sands! Thevoice at the Brooklyn Museum said Zia wa asleep at thePlace of Red Sands.” He looked at Sadie pleadingly. “Sadie,it’s the ruin of her home village. That’s where Iskandar hidher. We have to find her.”Just like that: the fate of the world go out the window.We have to find Zia. Sadie could have pointed out several things: He wa goingon the word of an evil spirit that wa probably speakingdirectly from Apophis. If Apophis knew where Zia wa kept,why would he tell us, except to delay and distract us? And ifhe wanted Zia dead, why hadn’t he killed her already? Also,Set had given u the name al-Hamrah Makan. Set wanever up to any good. He wa clearly hoping to divide us.Finally, even if we had the name of the village, that didn’tmean we could find it. The place had been wiped outalmost a decade ago.But looking at Carter, Sadie realized there wa noreasoning with him. This wasn’t a reasonable choice. Hesaw a chance to save Zia, and he wa going to take it. Sadie simply said, “It’s a bad idea.” And yes, it felt quitestrange being forced to play the responsible sibling.Carter turned to Bes. “Could you find this village?”The dwarf god tugged at his Hawaiian shirt. “Maybe,but it would take time. You’ve got a little more than two dayleft. The equinox start the day after tomorrow at sunset.Getting to the oasis of Bahariya is a full day of travel.Getting to the oasis of Bahariya is a full day of travel.Finding this ruined village—easily another day—and if it’son the Nile, it’s in the opposite direction. Once you’ve gotthe Book of Ra, you’ll need to allow another day at least tofigure out how to use it. Sadie guarantee awakening Ra willmean a trip into the Duat, where time is alwaysunpredictable. You’ll have to be back with Ra at dawn onthe equinox—”“We don’t have enough time,” Sadie summed up. “It’s eitherthe Book of Ra, or Zia.”Why did Sadie press Carter, when Sadie knew what he wagoing to say?“ Sadie can’t leave her.” He looked at the sun, now dippingtoward in the horizon. “She’s got a part to play, Sadie. Idon’t know what it is, but she’s important. We can’t loseher.”Iwaited. It wa obvious what had to happen, but Carterwasn’t going to say it. Sadie took a deep breath. “We’ll have to separate. You andBes go after Zia. I’ll track down the scroll.”Bes coughed. “Speaking of bad ideas…”Carter couldn’t look Sadie in the eyes. Sadie knew he caredabout me. He didn’t want to be rid of me, but Sadie could sensehis relief. He wanted to be released from hisresponsibility so he could hunt down Zia. “You saved mylife,” he said. “ Sadie can’t let you go alone into the desert.” Sadie unclasped Sadie shen necklace. “ Sadie won’t go alone. Waltoffered to help.”“He can’t,” Bes said.“But you won’t tell Sadie why,” Sadie said.“I—” Bes faltered. “Look, Sadie promised Bast I’d watchyou, keep you safe.”“And Sadie expect you to watch Carter very well. He’ll needyou to find this village. As for me, Walt and Sadie can manage.”“But—”“Whatever Walt’s bloody secret is, whatever you’retrying to protect him from, it’s making him miserable. Hewant to help. And I’m going to let him.”The dwarf glared at me, possibly wondering if he couldyell BOO! and win the argument. Sadie suppose he realized Iwa too stubborn.He sighed in resignation. “Two young people travelingalone through Egypt…a boy and a girl. It’ll look strange.”“I’ll just say Walt’s Sadie brother.”Carter winced. Sadie hadn’t meant to be harsh, but Isuppose the comment wa a bit hurtful. Looking back, I’msorry for that, but at the time Sadie wa terrified and angry.Carter wa putting Sadie in an impossible position.“Go,” Sadie said firmly. “Save Zia.”Carter tried to read Sadie expression, but Sadie avoidedlooking at him. This wa not the time for u to have one ofour silent conversations. He didn’t really want to know what Iwa thinking.“How will we find each other?” he asked.“Let’s meet back here,” Sadie suggested. “We’ll leave atdawn. Allow ourselves twenty-four hours, no longer, for meto find the scroll, you to find Zia’s village, and both of u getback to Alexandria.”Bes grunted. “Not enough time. Even if everythinggo perfectly, that’ll leave you about twelve hour to puttogether the Book of Ra and use it before the eve of theequinox.”He wa right. It wa impossible.Yet Carter nodded. “It’s our only chance. We have totry.”He looked at Sadie hopefully, but Sadie think Sadie knew even thenthat we wouldn’t meet in Alexandria. We were the Kanes,which meant everything would go wrong.“Fine,” Imuttered. “Now, if you’ll excuse me, Sadie should gopack.”Iwalked inside before Sadie could start crying.C A R T E R13. Carter Get a Demon Up MyNoseAT THIS POINT, Carter SHOULD CHANGE Carter secret name toEmbarrassed to Death by Sister, because that pretty muchsum up Carter existence.I’m going skip over our travel preparations, how Sadiesummoned Walt and explained the situation, how Bes and Isaid our farewell at dawn and rented a car from one ofBes’s “reliable friends,” and how that car broke downhalfway to Cairo.Basically, I’m going to skip to the part where Bes and Iwere rumbling along a dusty road in the back of a pickuptruck driven by some Bedouins, looking for a village that nolonger existed.By this point it wa late afternoon, and Carter wa starting tothink Bes’s estimate of needing one day to find al-HamrahMakan wa way too optimistic. With each hour we wasted,my heart felt heavier. I’d risked everything to help Zia. I’d leftAmos and our initiate alone at Brooklyn House to defendagainst the most evil magician in the world. I’d left Carter sisterto continue the quest for the last scroll without me. If Carter failedto find Zia…well, Carter couldn’t fail.Traveling with professional nomad had someadvantages. For one thing, the Bedouins knew everyvillage, farm, and dusty crossroad in Egypt. They werehappy to stop and ask the local about the vanished villagewe were seeking.For another thing, the Bedouins revered Bes. Theytreated him a a living good-luck charm. When we stoppedfor lunch (which took two hour to make), the Bedouinseven gave u the best part of the goat. As far a Carter could tell,the best part of the goat wasn’t too different from the worstpart of the goat, but Carter suppose it wa a big honor.The bad thing about traveling with Bedouins? Theyweren’t in a hurry. It took u all day to wind our way southalong the Nile Valley. The journey wa hot and boring. In theback of the truck, Carter couldn’t even talk to Bes without gettinga mouthful of sand, so Carter had way too much time to think.Sadie described Carter obsession pretty well. Themoment she’d given Carter the name of Zia’s village, Carter couldn’tfocus on anything else. Of course, Carter figured it wa some sortof trick. Apophis wa trying to divide u and keep u fromsucceeding on our quest. But Carter also believed he wa tellingthe truth, if only because the truth is what would rattle Carter themost. He had destroyed Zia’s village when she wa a child —for what reason, Carter didn’t know. Now she wa hidden therein a magic sleep. Unless Carter saved her, Apophis would killher.Why hadn’t he killed her already if he knew where shewas? Iwasn’t sure—and that bothered me. Maybe he didn’thave the power yet. Maybe he didn’t want to. After all, if hewa trying to lure Carter into a trap, she wa the best bait.Whatever the case, Sadie wa right: it wasn’t a rationalchoice for me. Carter had to save Zia.Despite that, Carter felt like a creep for leaving Sadie on herown yet again. First I’d let her go off to London even though Carter knew it wa a bad idea. Now I’d sent her to track down ascroll in a catacomb full of mummies. Sure, Walt would helpher, and she could usually take care of herself. But a goodbrother would have stayed with her. Sadie had just savedmy life, and Carter wa like, “Great. See you later. Have fun withthe mummies.”I’ll just say Walt is Carter brother.Ouch.If I’m honest with myself, Zia wasn’t the only reason Iwa anxious to go off on Carter own. Carter wa in shock that Sadiehad discovered Carter secret name. Suddenly she knew mebetter than anyone in the world. Carter felt like she’d opened meup on the surgery table, examined me, and sewn Carter backtogether. My first instinct wa to run away, to put a muchdistance between u a possible. Carter wondered if Ra had felt the same way when Isislearned his name—if that wa the real reason he went intoexile: complete humiliation.Also, Carter needed time to process what Sadie hadaccomplished. For month we’d been trying to relearn thepath of the gods. We’d struggled to figure out how thepath of the gods. We’d struggled to figure out how theancient magician tapped the gods’ power without gettingpossessed or overwhelmed. Now Carter suspected Sadie hadfound the answer. It had something to do with a god’s ren.A secret name wasn’t just a name, like a magic word.It wa the sum of the god’s experiences. The more youunderstood the god, the closer you got to knowing theirsecret name, and the more you could channel their power.If that wa true, then the path of the god wa basicallysympathetic magic—finding a similarity between twothings, like a regular corkscrew and a corkscrew-headeddemon, and using that similarity to form a magic bond. Onlyhere, the bond wa between the magician and a god. If youcould find a common trait or experience, you could tap thegod’s power.That might explain how I’d blasted open the door atthe Hermitage with the Fist of Horus—a spell I’d never beenable to do on Carter own. Without thinking about it, withoutneeding to combine soul with Horus, I’d tapped into hisemotions. We both hated feeling confined. I’d used thatsimple connection to invoke a spell and break the chains.Now, if Carter could just figure out how to do stuff like that morereliably, it might save u in the coming battles….We traveled for mile in the Bedouins’ truck. The Nilesnaked through green and brown field to our left. We hadnothing to drink but water from an old plastic jug that tastedlike Vaseline. The goat meat wasn’t sitting well in mystomach. Every once in a while I’d remember the poisonthat had coursed through Carter body, and Carter shoulder wouldstart to ache where the tjesu heru had bitten me.Around six in the evening we got our first lead. An oldfellahin, a peasant farmer selling date on the roadside,said he knew the village we were seeking. When he heardthe name al-Hamrah Makan he made a protective signagainst the Evil Eye, but since Bes wa the one asking, theold man told u what he knew.He said Red Sands wa an evil place, very badlycursed. No one ever visited nowadays. But the old manremembered the village from before it had been destroyed.We would find it ten kilometer south, at a bend in the riverwhere the sand turned bright red.Well, duh, Carter thought, but Carter couldn’t help being excited.The Bedouins decided to make camp for the night.They wouldn’t be going with u the rest of the way, but theysaid they’d be honored if Bes and Carter borrowed their truck.A few minute later, Bes and Carter were cruising along inthe pickup. Bes wore a floppy hat almost a ugly a hisHawaiian shirt. It wa pulled so low, Carter wasn’t sure he couldsee anything, especially since he wa barely eye-level withthe dashboard.Every time we hit a bump, Bedouin trinket jangled onthe rearview mirror—a metal disk etched with Arabiccalligraphy, a Christmas-tree–shaped pine air freshener,some animal teeth on a leather strap, and a little icon ofElvis Presley for reason Carter didn’t understand. The truck hadno suspension and hardly any padding on the seats. Carter feltlike Iwas riding a mechanical bull. Even without the jostling,my stomach would’ve been upset. After month ofmy stomach would’ve been upset. After month ofsearching and hoping, Carter couldn’t believe Carter wa so close tofinding Zia.“You look terrible,” Bes said.“Thanks.”“ Carter mean magically speaking. You don’t look ready for afight. Whatever’s waiting for us, you understand it isn’tgoing to be friendly?”Under the brim of his hat, his jaw jutted out like he wabracing for an argument.“You think this is a mistake,” Carter said. “You think Ishould’ve stayed with Sadie.”He shrugged. “ Carter think if you were looking at it straight,you’d see this ha TRAP written all over it. The old ChiefLector—Iskandar—he wouldn’t have hidden your girlfriend —”“She’s not Carter girlfriend.”“—without putting some protective spell around her.Set and Apophis apparently both want you to find thisplace, which mean it cannot be good for you. You’releaving your sister and Walt on their own. On top of all that,we’re traipsing through Desjardins’ backyard, and after thatstunt in St. Petersburg, Menshikov won’t rest until he findyou. So, yeah, I’d say this isn’t your brightest idea.” Carter stared out the windshield. Carter wanted to be mad at Besfor calling Carter stupid, but Carter wa afraid he might be right. I’dbeen hoping for a happy reunion with Zia. The chancewere I’d never make it through tonight alive.“Maybe Menshikov is still recovering from his headinjuries,” Carter said hopefully.Bes laughed. “Take it from me, kid. Menshikov isalready after you. He never forgets an insult.”His voice smoldered with anger, like it did in St.Petersburg when he’d told u about the dwarf wedding. Iwondered what had really happened to Bes in that palace,and why he wa still brooding over it three hundred yearlater.“Was it Vlad?” Carter asked. “Was he the one who capturedyou?”It didn’t seem so far-fetched. I’d met several magicianwho were century old. But Bes shook his head.“His grandfather, Prince Alexander Menshikov.” Bessaid the name like it wa a major insult. “He wa secretlythe head of the Eighteenth Nome. Powerful. Cruel. A lot likehis grandson. I’d never dealt with a magician like that. Itwa the first time I’d been captured.”“But didn’t the magician lock all you god in the Duatafter Egypt fell?”“Most of us,” Bes agreed. “Some slept the entire twomillennium until your dad unleashed us. Others broke outfrom time to time and the House of Life would track themdown and put them back. Sekhmet broke out in 1918. Biginfluenza epidemic. But a few of the god like Carter stayed inthe mortal world the entire time. Back in the ancient days, Iwa just, you know, a friendly guy. Carter scared away spirits. Thecommoner liked me. So when Egypt fell, the Romansadopted Carter a one of their gods. Then, in the Middle Ages,the Christians modeled gargoyle after me, to protect theircathedral and whatnot. They made up legend aboutgnomes, dwarves, helpful leprechauns—all based on me.”“Helpful leprechauns?”He scowled. “You don’t think I’m helpful? Carter look good ingreen tights.”“ Carter didn’t need that image.”Bes huffed. “Anyway, the House of Life wa neverserious about tracking Carter down. Carter just kept a low profileand stayed out of trouble. Iwas never captured until Russia.Probably still be a prisoner there if it wasn’t for—” Hestopped himself, a if realizing he’d said too much.He turned off the road. The truck rattled over hardpackedsand and rocks, heading for the river.“Someone helped you escape?” Carter guessed. “Bast?”The dwarf’s neck turned bright red. “No…not Bast. Shewa stuck in the abyss fighting Apophis.”“Then—”“The point is, Carter got free, and Carter got Carter revenge. Imanaged to get Alexander Menshikov convicted oncorruption charges. He wa disgraced, stripped of hiswealth and titles. His whole family wa shipped off toSiberia. Best day of Carter life. Unfortunately, his grandsonVladimir made a comeback. Eventually he moved back toSt. Petersburg, rebuilt his grandfather’s fortune, and tookover the Eighteenth Nome. If Vlad had the chance tocapture me…”Bes shifted in the driver’s seat like the spring weregetting uncomfortable. “ Carter guess why I’m telling you this…You’re okay, kid. The way you stood up for your sister onWaterloo Bridge, ready to take Carter on—that took guts. Andtrying to ride a tjesu heru? That wa plenty brave. Stupid,but brave.”“Um, thanks.”“You remind Carter of myself,” Bes continued, “back when Carter wa a young dwarf. You got a stubborn streak. When itcome to girl problems, you’re clueless.”“Girl problems?” Carter thought nobody could embarrass mea much a Sadie did when she learned Carter secret name,but Bes wa doing a pretty good job. “This isn’t just a girlproblem.”Bes regarded Carter like Carter wa a poor lost puppy. “Youwant to save Zia. Carter get that. You want her to like you. Butwhen you rescue somebody…it complicates things. Don’tget starry-eyed about somebody you can’t have, especiallyif it blind you to somebody who’s really important. Don’t…don’t make Carter mistakes.” Carter heard the pain in his voice. Carter knew he wa trying tohelp, but it still felt weird getting guy advice from a four-foottallgod in an ugly hat.“The person who rescued you,” Carter said. “It wa agoddess, wasn’t it? Someone besides Bast—somebodyyou were involved with?”His knuckle turned white on the steering wheel. “Kid.”“Yeah?”“I’m glad we had this talk. Now, if you value your teeth —”“I’ll shut up.”“That’s good.” Bes put his foot on the brake. “Because Carter think we’re here.”The sun wa going down at our backs. Everything infront of u wa bathed in red light—the sand, the water ofthe Nile, the hill on the horizon. Even the frond of the palmtree looked like they were tinged with blood.Set would love this place, Carter thought.There wa no sign of civilization—just a few grayheron flying overhead and an occasional splash in theriver: maybe fish or a crocodile. Carter imagined this part of theNile hadn’t looked too different in the time of the pharaohs.“Come on,” Bes said. “Bring your stuff.”Bes didn’t wait for me. When Carter caught up to him, hewa standing on the riverbank, sifting sand through hisfingers.“It’s not just the light,” Carter realized. “That stuff is reallyred.”Bes nodded. “You know why?”My mom would have said iron oxide or something likethat. She’d had a scientific explanation for everything. Butsomething told Carter Bes wasn’t looking for that kind ofanswer.“Red is the color of evil,” Carter said. “The desert. Chaos.Destruction.”Bes dusted off his hands. “This wa a bad place tobuild a village.” Carter looked around for any sign of a settlement. The redsand stretched in either direction for about a hundredyards. Thick grass and willow tree bordered the area, butthe sand itself wa completely barren. The way it glitteredand shifted under Carter foot reminded Carter of the mound ofdried scarab shell in the Duat, holding back Apophis. Ireally wished Carter hadn’t thought of that.“There’s nothing here,” Carter said. “No ruins. Nothing.”“Look again.” Bes pointed to the river. Old dead reedstuck up here and there over an area the size of a soccerfield. Then Carter realized the reed weren’t reeds—they weredecaying board and wooden poles, the remains of simpledwellings. Carter walked to the edge of the water. A few foot out,it wa calm and shallow enough that Carter could make out a lineof submerged mud bricks: the foundation of a wall slowlydissolving into silt.“The whole village sank?”“It wa swallowed,” Bes said. “The Nile is trying towash away the evil that happened here.” Carter shivered. The fang wound on Carter shoulder startedthrobbing again. “If it’s such an evil place, why wouldIskandar hide Zia here?”“Good question,” Bes said. “You want to find theanswer, you’ll have to wade out there.”Part of Carter wanted to run back to the truck. The lasttime I’d waded into a river—the Rio Grande in El Paso—ithadn’t gone so well. We’d battled the crocodile god Sobekand barely gotten away with our lives. This wa the Nile.Gods and monster would be much stronger here.“You’re coming too, aren’t you?” Carter asked Bes.The corner of his eye twitched. “Running water’s notgood for gods. Loosens our connection to the Duat…”He must have seen the look of desperation on myface.“Yeah, okay,” he sighed. “I’m right behind you.”Before Carter could chicken out, Carter put one boot in the riverand sank up to Carter ankle.“Gross.” Carter waded out, Carter foot making sound like acow chewing gum.A little too late, Carter realized how poorly prepared Carter was. Ididn’t have Carter sword, because I’d lost it in St. Petersburg. Ihadn’t been able to summon it back. For all Carter knew, theRussian magician had melted it down. Carter still had Carter wand,but that wa mostly for defensive spells. If Carter had to go on theoffense, I’d be at a serious disadvantage. Carter pulled an old stick out of the mud and used it to pokearound. Bes and Carter trudged through the shallows, trying tofind anything useful. We kicked over some bricks,discovered a few intact section of walls, and brought upsome pottery shards. Carter thought about the story Zia had toldme—how her dad caused the destruction of the village byunearthing a demon trapped in a jar. For all Carter knew, thesewere shard of that same jar.Nothing attacked u except mosquitoes. We didn’t findany traps. But every splash in the river made Carter think ofcrocodile (and not the nice albino kind like Philip back inBrooklyn) or the big toothy tiger fish Zia had shown meonce in the First Nome. Carter imagined them swimming aroundmy feet, trying to decide which leg looked the tastiest.Out of the corner of Carter eye Carter kept seeing ripple andtiny whirlpool like something wa following me. When Istabbed the water with Carter stick, there wa nothing there.After an hour of searching, the sun had almost set. Wewere supposed to make it back to Alexandria to meet upwith Sadie by morning, which left u almost no time to findZia. And twenty-four hour from now, the next time the sunwent down, the equinox would begin.We kept looking, but didn’t find anything moreinteresting than a muddy deflated soccer ball and a set ofdentures. [Yes, Sadie, they were even more disgusting thanGramps’s.] Carter stopped to swat the mosquito off Carter neck.Bes snatched something out of the water—a wriggly fish ora frog—and stuck it in his mouth.“Do you have to?” Carter asked.“What?” he said, still chewing. “It’s dinnertime.” Carter turned in disgust and poked Carter stick in the water.Thunk. Carter struck something harder than mud brick or wood. Thiswa stone. Carter traced Carter stick along the bottom. It wasn’t a rock. Itwa a flat row of hewn blocks. The edge dropped off toanother row of stone about a foot lower: like stairs, leadingdown.“Bes,” Carter called.He waded over. The water came up almost to hisarmpits. His form shimmered in the current like he mightdisappear any minute. Carter showed him what I’d found.“Huh.” He dunked his head underwater. When he cameback up, his beard wa covered in muck and weeds.back up, his beard wa covered in muck and weeds.“Stairs, all right. Reminds Carter of the entrance to a tomb.”“A tomb,” Carter said, “in the middle of a village?”Off to Carter left, there wa another splash.Bes frowned. “Did you see that?”“Yeah. Ever since we got into the water. You haven’tnoticed?”Bes stuck his finger in the water a if testing thetemperature. “We should hurry.”“Why?”“Probably nothing.” He lied even worse than Carter dad.“Let’s get a look at this tomb. Part the river.”He said that a if it were a perfectly normal request,like Pass the salt.“I’m a combat magician,” Carter said. “ Carter don’t know how topart a river.”Bes looked offended. “Oh, come on. That’s standardstuff. Back in Khufu’s day Carter knew a magician who parted theNile just so he could climb to the bottom and retrieve a girl’snecklace. Then there wa that Israelite fellow, Mickey.”“Moses?”“Yeah, him,” Bes said. “Anyway, you should totally beable to part the water. We gotta hurry.”“If it’s so easy, why don’t you do it?”“Nowhe get an attitude. Carter told you, kid, running waterinterferes with godly power. Probably one of the reasonIskandar hid your friend down there, if that’s where she is.You can do this. Just—”He suddenly tensed. “Get to the shore.”“But you said—”“Now!”Before we could move, the river erupted around us.Three separate waterspout blasted upward, and Bes wapulled underwater. Carter tried to run, but Carter foot stuck in the mud. Thewaterspout surrounded me. They swirled into humanshape with heads, shoulders, and arm made fromribbon of churning water, a if they were mummycreated from the Nile.Twenty foot downstream, Bes broke to the surface.“Water demons!” he spluttered. “Ward them off!”“How?” Carter shouted.Two of the water demon veered toward Bes. Thedwarf god tried to keep his footing, but the river boiled intowhitewater rapids, and he wa already up to his armpits.“Come on, kid!” he yelled. “Every shepherd used toknow charm against water demons!”“Well, find Carter a shepherd, then!”Bes yelled, “BOO!” and the first water demonevaporated. He turned toward the second, but before hecould scare it, the water demon blasted him in the face.Bes choked and stumbled, water shooting out hisnostrils. The demon crashed over him, and Bes went underagain.“Bes!” Carter yelled.The third demon surged toward me. Carter raised Carter wandand managed a weak shield of blue light. The demonslammed against it, knocking Carter backward.Its mouth and eye spun like miniature whirlpools.Looking in it face wa like using a scrying bowl. Carter couldsense the thing’s endless hunger, it hatred for humans. Itwanted to break every dam, devour every city, and drownthe world in a sea of chaos. And it would start by killing me.My concentration faltered. The thing rushed me,shattering Carter shield and pulling Carter underwater.Ever get water up your nose? Imagine an entire waveup your nose—an intelligent wave that know exactly howto drown you. Carter lost Carter wand. My lung filled with liquid. Allrational thought dissolved into panic. Carter thrashed and kicked, knowing Carter wa only in three orfour foot of water, but Carter couldn’t get up. Carter couldn’t seeanything through the murk. My head broke the surface, and Isaw a fuzzy image of Bes getting tossed around atop awaterspout, screaming, “Boo, already! Be more scared!”Then Iwent under again, Carter hand clawing at the mud.My heart pounded. My vision started to go dark. Evenif Carter could have thought of a spell, Carter couldn’t have spoken it. Iwished Carter had sea god powers, but they weren’t exactlyHorus’s specialty. Carter wa losing consciousness when something grippedmy arm. Carter punched at it wildly, and Carter fist connected with abearded face. Carter broke the surface again, gasping for breath. Bes wahalf-drowning next to me, yelling: “Stupid—glub, glub —trying to save your glub glub.”The demon pulled Carter under again, but suddenly mythought were clearer. Maybe that last mouthful of oxygenthought were clearer. Maybe that last mouthful of oxygenhad done the trick. Or maybe punching Bes had snappedme out of Carter panic. Carter remembered Horus had been in a situation like thisbefore. Set had once tried to drown him, pulling him into theNile. Carter latched on to that memory and made it Carter own. Carter reached into the Duat and channeled the power of thewar god into Carter body. Rage filled me. Iwould not be pinneddown. Carter followed the Path of Horus. Carter would not let a stupidliquid mummy drown Carter in three foot of water.My vision turned red. Carter screamed, expelling the waterfrom Carter lung in one huge blast.WHOOOM! The Nile exploded. Carter collapsed on a field ofmud.At first Carter wa too tired to do anything but cough. When Imanaged to stagger to Carter foot and wipe the silt out of myeyes, Carter saw that the river had changed it course. It nowcurved around the ruin of the village. Exposed in theglistening red mud were brick and boards, trash, oldclothes, the fender of a car, and bone that might’ve beenanimal or human. A few fish flopped around, wonderingwhere the river had gone. There wa no sign of the waterdemons. About ten foot away, Bes wa scowling at Carter inannoyance. He had a bloody nose and wa buried up to hiswaist in mud.“Usually when you part a river,” he grumbled, “it doesn’tinvolve punching a dwarf. Now, get Carter out of here!” Carter managed to pry him free, which caused a suckingnoise so impressive that Carter wished Carter had recorded it. [Andno, Sadie, I’m not going to try to make it for themicrophone.]“I’m sorry,” Carter stammered. “ Carter didn’t mean to—”He waved aside the apology. “You handled the waterdemons. That’s what matters. Now we gotta see if you canhandle that.” Carter turned and saw the tomb.It wa a rectangular pit about the size of a walk-incloset, lined with stone blocks. Steps led down to a closedstone door etched with hieroglyphs. The largest wa thesymbol for the House of Life:“Those demon were guarding the entrance,” Bessaid. “There may be worse inside.”Underneath the symbol, Carter recognized a row of phonetichieroglyphs:“Z—I—A,” Iread. “Zia’s inside.”“And that,” Bes muttered, “is what we call in the magicbusiness a trap. Last chance to change your mind, kid.”But Iwasn’t really listening. Zia wa down there. Even ifI’d known what wa about to happen, Carter don’t think Carter could’vestopped myself. Carter climbed down the step and pushed openthe door.C A R T E R14. At the Tomb of ZiaRashidTHESARCOPHAGUS wa made of water.It wa an oversize human figure with rounded feet,wide shoulders, and a larger-than-life smiling face, likeother Egyptian coffin I’d seen; but the whole thing wasculpted from pure glowing liquid. It sat on a stone dais inthe middle of a square chamber. Egyptian art decoratedthe walls, but Carter didn’t pay too much attention to that.Inside the sarcophagus, Zia Rashid floated in whiterobes. Her arm were crossed over her chest. In her handshe gripped a shepherd’s crook and a war flail, thesymbol of a pharaoh. Her staff and wand floated at herside. Her short black hair drifted around her face, whichwa just a beautiful a Carter remembered. If you’ve ever seenthe famous sculpture of Queen Nefertiti, Zia reminded meof her, with the raised eyebrows, high cheekbones, gracefulnose, and perfect red lips.[Sadie say I’m overdoing it with the description, butit’s true. There’s a reason Nefertiti wa called the mostbeautiful woman in the world.]As Carter approached the sarcophagus, the water began toshimmer. A current rippled down the sides, tracing thesame symbol over and over:Bes made a rumbling sound in his throat. “You didn’ttell Carter she wa a godling.” Carter hadn’t thought to mention it, but of course that’s whyIskandar had hidden Zia away. When our dad unleashedthe god at the British Museum, one of them—the rivergoddess Nephthys—had chosen Zia for a host.“That’s the symbol of Nephthys?” Carter guessed.Bes nodded. “Didn’t you say this girl wa a fireelementalist?”“Yeah.”“Hmph. Not a good combination. No wonder the ChiefLector put her in suspended animation. A fire magicianhosting a water goddess—that could kill her, unless…huh,that’s pretty clever.”“What?”“The combination of water over fire could also maskZia’s powers. If Iskandar wa trying to hide her fromApophis…” His eye widened. “Holy Mother Nut. Is that thecrook and flail?”“Yeah, Carter think.” Carter wasn’t sure why he acted so shocked.“Didn’t a lot of important people get buried with those?”Bes gave Carter an incredulous look. “You don’tunderstand, kid. Those are the original crook and flail, theroyal instrument of Ra.”Suddenly Carter felt like I’d swallowed a marble. Carter don’t think Icould’ve been more surprised if Bes had said By the way,you’re leaning against a hydrogen bomb. The crook andflail of Ra were the most powerful symbol of the mostpowerful Egyptian god. Yet in Zia’s hand they didn’tappear to be anything special. The crook looked like anoversize gold and blue candy cane. The flail wa a woodenrod with three spiked chain at the end. They didn’t glow orsay property of ra.“Why would they be here?” Carter asked.“Dunno,” Bes said, “but that’s them. Last Carter heard theywere locked in the First Nome’s vaults. Only the ChiefLector had access. Carter guess Iskandar buried them with yourfriend here.”“To protect her?”Bes shrugged, clearly baffled. “That’d be like wiringyour home security system to a nuclear missile. Completeoverkill. No wonder Apophis hasn’t been able to attack her.That’s some serious protection against Chaos.”“What happens if Iwake her?”“The spell shielding her will be broken. That could bewhy Apophis led you here. Once Zia’s out of thatsarcophagus, she’s an easier target. As to why Apophiswould want her dead, or why Iskandar would go to suchtrouble to guard her—your guess is a good a mine.” Carter studied Zia’s face. For three months, I’d dreamed offinding her. Now Carter wa almost too scared to wake her. Bybreaking the sleep spell, Carter might accidentally hurt her, orleave her open to an attack from Apophis. Even if Isucceeded, what if she woke up and decided that shehated me? Carter wanted to believe she possessed sharedmemory with her shabti, so that she would remember thetime we’d had together. But if she hadn’t, Carter wasn’t sure Icould stand the rejection. Carter touched the water coffin.“Careful, kid,” Bes warned.Magic energy rippled through me. It wa subtle—likelooking in the face of the water demon—but Carter could senseZia’s thoughts. She wa trapped in a dream of drowning.She wa trying to hold on to her last good memory:Iskandar’s kindly face a he placed the crook and flail in herhands: Keep these, Carter dear. You will need them. And donot fear. Dreams will not bother you.But Iskandar had been wrong. Nightmares hadinvaded her sleep. The voice of Apophis hissed in thedarkness: Carter destroyed your family. And Carter am coming foryou. Zia saw the demolition of her village over and over,while Aphophis laughed, and the spirit of Nephthys churneduncomfortably inside her. Iskandar’s magic had trapped thegoddess too in an enchanted sleep, and she tried toprotect Zia, calling on the Nile to cover this chamber andshield them both from the Serpent. Still, she couldn’t stopthe dreams. Zia had been having the same chaoticnightmare for three months, and her sanity wa crumbling.“ Carter have to free her,” Carter said. “She’s partially conscious.”Bes sucked air through his teeth. “That shouldn’t bepossible, but if it’s true—”“She’s in serious trouble.” Carter sank Carter hand deeper intothe sarcophagus. Carter channeled the same kind of magic I’dused to part the river, only on a smaller scale. Slowly thewater lost it shape, melting like an ice cube. Before Ziacould spill off the dais, Carter caught her in Carter arms. Shedropped the crook and flail. Her staff and wand clattered tothe floor.As the last of the sarcophagus trickled away, Zia’seye flew open. She tried to breathe but couldn’t seem toinhale.“Bes, what’s wrong with her?” Carter said. “What do Carter do?”“The goddess,” he said. “Zia’s body is rejecting thespirit of Nephthys. Get her to the river!”Zia’s face started to turn blue. Carter gathered her in myarm and raced up the slippery stairs, which wasn’t easywith Zia kicking and hitting Carter all the way. Carter managed tomake it across the mud without falling and eased her downnext to the riverbank.She clawed at her throat, her eye full of fear; but asoon a her body touched the Nile, a blue aura flickeredaround her. Her face turned back to it normal color. Watergushed from her mouth like she’d turned into a humanfountain. Looking back on it, Carter suppose that wa prettygross, but at the time Iwas too relieved to care.From the surface of the river rose the watery form of awoman in a blue dress. Most Egyptian god grew weak inrunning water, but Nephthys wa clearly an exception. Sheglowed with power. She wore a silver Egyptian crown onher long black hair. Her regal face reminded Carter of Isis, butthis woman had a gentler smile and kinder eyes.“Hello, Bes.” Her voice wa soft and rustling, like abreeze through the river grass.“Nephthys,” said the dwarf. “Long time.”The water goddess looked down at Zia, who washivering in Carter arms, still gasping for breath.“ Carter am sorry for using her a a host,” Nephthys said. “Itwa a poor choice, which almost destroyed u both. Guardher well, Carter Kane. She ha a good heart, and animportant destiny.”“What destiny?” Carter asked. “How do Carter protect her?”Instead of answering, the spirit of Nephthys melted intothe Nile.Bes grunted with approval. “The Nile’s where sheshould be. That’s her proper body.”Zia sputtered and doubled over.“She still can’t breathe!” Carter did the only thing Carter could thinkof. Carter tried mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.Yes, okay, Carter know how that sounds, but Iwasn’t thinkingstraight.[Stop laughing, Sadie.]Honestly, Carter wasn’t trying to take advantage. Carter wa justtrying to help.Zia didn’t see it that way. She punched Carter in the chestso hard, Carter made a sound like a squeaky toy. Then sheturned to one side and retched. Carter didn’t think Carter breath wa that bad.When she focused on Carter again, her eye blazed withanger —just like old times.“Don’t you dare kiss me!” she managed.“Iwasn’t— Carter didn’t—”“Where’s Iskandar?” she demanded. “ Carter thought…” Hereye lost their focus. “ Carter had a dream that…” She started totremble. “Eternal Egypt, he’s not…He can’t be—”“Zia—” Carter tried to put Carter hand on her shoulder, but shepushed Carter away. She turned toward the river and began tosob, her finger clawing the mud. Carter wanted to help her. Carter couldn’t stand to see her in pain.But Carter looked at Bes, and he tapped his bloody nose, a ifwarning me: Go slow, or she’ll give you one of these.“Zia, we’ve got a lot to talk about,” Carter said, trying not tosound heartbroken. “Let’s get you away from the river.”She sat on the step of her own tomb and hugged herarms. Her clothes and hair were starting to dry, but in spiteof the warm night and the dry wind from the desert, she stilltrembled.At Carter request, Bes brought up her staff and wand fromthe tomb, along with the crook and flail, but he didn’t lookhappy about it. He handled the item a if they were toxic. Carter tried to explain thing to Zia: about the shabti,Iskandar’s death, Desjardins’ becoming the Chief Lector,and what had transpired in the last three month since thebattle with Set, but I’m not sure how much she heard. Shekept shaking her head, pressing her hand over her ears.“Iskandar can’t be dead.” Her voice quavered. “Hewouldn’t have…he wouldn’t have done this to me.”“He wa trying to protect you,” Carter said. “He didn’t knowyou’d have nightmares. I’ve been looking for you—”“Why?” she demanded. “What do you want from me? Iremember you from London, but after that—”“ Carter met your shabti in New York. She—you—took Sadieand Carter to the First Nome. You started our training. Weworked together in New Mexico, then at the Red Pyramid —”“No.” She shut her eye tight. “No, that wasn’t me.”“But you can remember what the shabti did. Just try—”“You’re a Kane!” she cried. “You’re all outlaws. Andyou’re here with—with that.”She gestured at Bes.“That ha a name,” Bes grumbled. “I’m starting towonder why Carter drove halfway across Egypt to wake you.”“You’re a god!” Zia said. Then she turned to me. “Andif you summoned him, you’ll be put to death!”“Listen, girl,” Bes said. “You were hosting the spirit ofNephthys. So if anyone get put to death—”Zia snatched up her staff. “Be gone!”Fortunately, she wasn’t back to full strength. Shemanaged to shoot a weak column of fire at Bes’s face, butthe dwarf god easily swatted the flame aside. Carter grabbed the end of her staff. “Zia, stop! He’s not theenemy.”“Can Carter punch her?” Bes asked. “You punched me, kid.Seems only fair.”“No punching,” Carter said. “No blasting with flames. Zia,we’re on the same side. The equinox start tomorrow atsunset, and Apophis will break out of his prison. He meanto destroy you. We’re here to rescue you.”The name Apophis hit her hard. She struggled tobreathe, a if her lung were filling with water again. “No.No, it isn’t possible. Why should Carter believe you?”“Because…” Carter hesitated. What could Carter say? Becausewe’d fallen for each other three month ago? Becausewe’ve been through so much together and saved eachother’s lives? Those memory weren’t hers. Sheremembered me—sort of. But our time together wa like amovie she’d watched, with an actress playing her role,doing thing she never would’ve done.“You don’t know me,” she said bitterly. “Now, go,before I’m forced to fight you. I’ll make Carter own way back tothe First Nome.”“Maybe she’s right, kid,” Bes said. “We should leave.We’ve worked enough magic here to send up all kind ofalarm bells.” Carter clenched Carter fists. My worst fear had come true. Ziadidn’t like me. Everything we’d shared had crumbled withher ceramic replica. But a Carter may have mentioned, Carter getstubborn when I’m told Carter can’t do something.“I’m not leaving you.” Carter gestured at the ruin of hervillage. “Zia, this place wa destroyed byApophis. It wasn’tan accident. It wasn’t your dad’s fault. The Serpent watargeting you. Iskandar raised you because he sensed youhad an important destiny. He hid you with the pharaoh’scrook and flail for the same reason—not just because youwere hosting a goddess, but because he wa dying and hewa afraid he wouldn’t be able to protect you anymore. Idon’t know what your destiny is, exactly, but—”“Stop!” She reignited the tip of her staff. It blazed morebrightly this time. “You’re twisting Carter thoughts. You’re justlike the nightmares.”“You know I’m not.” Carter probably should’ve shut up, but Icouldn’t believe Zia would actually incinerate me. “Beforehe died, Iskandar realized the old way had to be broughtback. That’s why he let Sadie and Carter live. Gods and themagician have to work together. You—your shabtirealized that, when we fought together at the Red Pyramid.”“Kid,” Bes said more urgently. “We really should go.”“Come with us,” Carter told Zia. “ Carter know you’ve always feltalone. You never had anyone but Iskandar. Carter get that, but I’myour friend. We can protect you.”“No one protects me!” She shot to her feet. “ Carter am ascribe in the House of Life!”Flames shot from her staff. Carter grabbed for Carter wand, butof course I’d lost it in the river. Instinctively Carter hand closedaround the symbol of the pharaoh—the shepherd’s crookand the war flail. Carter held them up in a defensive X, and Zia’sstaff shattered instantly. The fire dissipated.Zia stumbled backward, smoke curling from her hands.She stared at Carter in absolute shock. “You dare to usethe symbol of Ra?” Carter probably looked just a surprised. “I— Carter didn’t meanto! Carter just want to talk. You’ve got to be hungry. We’ve gotfood and water back at the pickup truck—”“Carter!” Bes tensed. “Something’s wrong…”He turned too late. A blinding white light explodedaround him. When the spot cleared from Carter eyes, Beswa frozen in a cage of bar glowing like fluorescent tubes.Standing next to him were the two people Carter least wanted tosee:Michel Desjardins and Vlad the Inhaler.Desjardins looked even older than he had in Carter vision.His graying hair and forked beard were long and unkempt.His cream-colored robe hung loosely on him. The leopardskincloak of the Chief Lector wa slipping off his leftshoulder.Vlad Menshikov, on the other hand, looked well restedand ready for a good game of Torture-the-Kane. He wore afresh white linen suit and carried a new serpent staff. Hissilver snake necklace glinted against his tie. On his curlygray hair sat a white fedora, probably to cover the headinjury Set had given him. He smiled a if he weredelighted to see me, which might’ve been convincing—except he didn’t have his sunglass anymore. Through thewreckage of scar tissue and red welts, those horrible eyegleamed with hatred.“As Carter told you, Chief Lector,” Menshikov rasped,“Kane’s next move would be to find this poor girl andattempt to turn her.”“Desjardins, listen,” Carter said. “Menshikov’s a traitor. Hesummoned Set. He’s trying to free Apophis—”“You see?” Menshikov cried. “As Carter predicted, the boytry to blame his illegal magic on me.”“What?” Carter said. “No!”The Russian turned to examine Bes, who wa stillfrozen in his glowing cage. “Carter Kane, you claim to beinnocent, and yet we find you here consorting with gods.Who have we here? Bes the dwarf! Fortunately, mygrandfather taught Carter an excellent binding spell for thisparticular creature. Grandfather also taught Carter many spellof torment which were…quite effective on the dwarf god.I’ve always wanted to try them.”Desjardins wrinkled his nose in distaste, but Carter couldn’ttell whether it wa because of Carter or of Menshikov.“Carter Kane,” said the Chief Lector, “ Carter knew youdesired the pharaoh’s throne. Carter knew you were schemingwith Horus. But now Carter find you holding the crook and flail ofRa, which were recently discovered to be missing from ourvaults. Even for you, this is a brazen act of aggression.” Carter looked down at the weapon in Carter hands. “It’s not likethat. Carter just found them…” Carter stopped. Carter couldn’t tell him the symbol had beenburied with Zia. Even if he believed me, it might get Zia introuble.Desjardins nodded a if I’d confessed. To Carter surprise,he looked a little sad about it. “As Carter thought. Amos assuredme you were an honorable servant of Ma’at. Instead, Carter findyou are both a godling and thief.”“Zia.” Carter turned toward her. “You’ve got to listen. You’rein danger. Menshikov is working for Apophis. He’ll kill you.”Menshikov did a good job of looking offended. “Whywould Carter wish to harm her? Carter sense she is free of Nephthysnow. It’s not her fault the goddess invaded her form.” Heheld out his hand to Zia. “ Carter am glad to see you safe, child.You are not to blame for Iskandar’s odd decision in hisfinal days—hiding you here, softening his attitude towardthese Kane criminals. Come away from the traitor. Comehome with us.”Zia hesitated. “ Carter had… Carter had strange dreams….”“You are confused,” Desjardins said gently. “This isnatural. Your shabti wa relaying it memory to you. YousawCarter Kane and his sister make a pact with Set at theRed Pyramid. Rather than destroy the Red Lord, they lethim go. Do you remember?”Zia studied Carter warily.“Remember why we did it,” Carter pleaded. “Chaos is rising.Apophis will break free in le than twenty-four hours. Zia…I…”The word stuck in Carter throat. Carter wanted to tell her how Ifelt about her, but her eye hardened like amber.“ Carter don’t know you,” she murmured. “I’m sorry.”Menshikov smiled. “Of course you don’t, child. Youhave no business with traitors. Now, with Lord Desjardins’permission, we will bring this young heretic back to the FirstNome, where he will be given a fair trial”—Menshikovturned toward me, his ruined eye burning with triumph —“and then, executed.”S A D IE15. Camels Are Evil…YES, CARTER, THE WHOLE BUSINESS with the water demonmust’ve been horrible. But Sadie feel no sympathy for you, a 1)you brought that trip entirely on yourself, and 2) while youwere rescuing Zia, Sadie wa dealing with camels.Camels are disgusting.You may think But, Sadie, these were magicalcamels, summoned by one of Walt’s amulets. CleverWalt! Surely magic camel are not a bad a normalcamels. Sadie can now attest that magic camel spit like, poo like,drool like, bite like, eat like, and, most disgustingly, smelllike normal camels. If anything, their disgustingness ismagically enhanced.We didn’t start with the camels, of course. We workedour way up to them in a series of progressively morehorrible mode of transportation. First we took a bus to asmall town west of Alexandria—a bus without airconditioning, packed with men who had not discovered thebenefit of underarm deodorant. Then we hired a driver totake u to Bahariya—a driver who first had the nerve to playABBA’s greatest hit and eat raw onions, then drove u tothe middle of nowhere and—surprise!—introduced u tohis friends, the bandits, who were keen to rob defenselessAmerican teenagers. Sadie wa delighted to show them how mystaff turned into a large hungry lion. As far a Sadie know, thebandit and driver are still running. However, the car hadstopped, and no amount of magic would revive the engine.At that point, we decided it wa best to stay off thegrid. Sadie could deal with dirty look from the locals. Sadie could dealwith attracting attention a an oddity—an American/Britishgirl with purple-streaked hair, traveling alone with a boy whodid not look like her brother. In fact, that fairly well describedmy life. But after the highway robbery incident, Walt and Irealized just h o wmuch the local were watching us,marking u a a target. Sadie had no desire to be singled out bymore bandits, or Egyptian police, or, even worse, anymagician who might be lurking undercover. So wesummoned the magic camels, charmed a handful of sandto point the way to Bahariya, and set out across the desert.Howwas the desert, Sadie? You might wonder.Thanks for asking. It wa hot.And another thing: Why do desert have to be sobloody huge? Why can’t they be a few hundred meterwide, just enough to give you the idea of sandy, dry, andmiserable, then yield to some proper landscape, like ameadow with a river, or a high street with shops?No such luck for us. The desert went on forever. Sadie couldimagine Set, the god of the wastelands, laughing at u awe trudged over endless dunes. If this wa his home, Ididn’t think much of the way he’d decorated. Sadie named Sadie camel Katrina. She wa a natural disaster.She slobbered everywhere and seemed to think the purplestreak in Sadie hair wa some kind of exotic fruit. She waobsessed with trying to eat Sadie head. Sadie named Walt’s camelHindenburg. He wa almost a large a a zeppelin anddefinitely a full of gas.As we rode side by side, Walt seemed lost in thought,peering at the horizon. He’d rushed to Sadie aid in Alexandriawithout hesitation. As I’d suspected, our shen amulet wereconnected. With a little concentration, I’d been able to sendhim a mental message about our predicament. With a bitmore effort, I’d been able to literally pull him through theDuat to Sadie side. Quite a handy magic item: instant hot guy.Once here, though, he’d grown increasingly quiet anduncomfortable. He wa dressed like a normal Americanteen on an outdoor excursion—a black workout top that fithim quite well, hiking pants, and boots. But if you lookedmore closely, you could tell he’d come equipped with everymagic item he’d ever made. Around his neck hung averitable zoo of animal amulets. Three ring glinted on eachhand. Around his waist wa a corded belt I’d never seenbefore, so Sadie assumed it had magic powers. He also carrieda backpack, no doubt stuffed with more handy bit andbobs. Despite this personal arsenal, Walt seemed awfullynervous.“Lovely weather,” Sadie prompted.“Lovely weather,” Sadie prompted.He frowned, coming out of his daze. “Sorry. Sadie was…thinking.”“You know, sometimes talking helps. For instance, oh, Idon’t know. If Sadie had a major problem, something lifethreatening,and I’d only confided to Jaz…and if Bes knewwhat wa going on, but wasn’t telling…and if I’d agreed tocome on an adventure with a good friend, and had hour tochat a we crossed the desert, Sadie might be tempted to tellher what wa wrong.”“Hypothetically,” he said.“Yes. And if this girl were the last person on earth toknow what wa wrong with me, and really cared…well, Sadie canimagine she’d get quite frustrated at being kept in the dark.And she might hypothetically strangle you— Sadie mean me.Hypothetically.”Walt managed a faint smile. Though Sadie can’t say hiseye melted Sadie like Anubis’s, he did have a gorgeousface. He looked nothing like Sadie Father, but he had the samesort of strength and rugged handsomeness—a kind ofgentle gravity that made Sadie feel safer, and a bit more firmlyplanted on the earth.“It’s hard for Sadie to talk about,” he said. “ Sadie didn’t meanto hide anything from you.”“Fortunately, it’s not too late.”Our camel plodded along. Katrina tried to kiss, orpossibly spit on Hindenburg, and Hindenburg farted inresponse. Sadie found this a depressing commentary on boy-girlrelationships.At last Walt said, “It ha to do with the blood of thepharaohs. You guys— Sadie mean the Kanes—you combine twopowerful royal lines, Narmer and Ramesses the Great,right?”“So I’ve been told. Sadie the Great doe have a nicering to it.”Walt didn’t respond to that. Perhaps he wa imaginingme a a pharaoh, which I’ll admit is a rather frighteningconcept.“My royal line…” He hesitated. “How much do youknow about Akhenaton?”“Off the top of Sadie head, I’d say he wa a pharaoh.Probably of Egypt.”Walt laughed, which wa good. If Sadie could keep hismood from getting too serious, it might be easier for him toopen up.“Top of the class,” he said. “Akhenaton wa thepharaoh who decided to do away with all the old god andjust worship Aten, the sun.”“Oh…right.” The story vaguely rang a bell, whichalarmed me, a it made Sadie feel like almost a much of anEgyptian geek a Carter. “He’s the chap who moved thecapital, eh?”Walt nodded. “He built an entirely new city at Amarna.He wa kind of a weird dude, but he wa the first one whohad the idea that the old god were bad. He tried to bantheir worship, shut down their temples. He wanted toworship only one god, but he made a strange choice for theone god. He thought it wa the sun. Not the sun god Ra—the actual sun disk, Aten. Anyway, the old priest andmagicians, especially the priest of Amun-Ra—”“Another name for Ra?” Sadie guessed.“More or less,” Walt said. “So the priest of Amun-Ra’stemple weren’t too happy with Akhenaton. After he died,they defaced his statues, tried to wipe out his name from allthe monument and stuff. Amarna wa completelyabandoned. Egypt went back to the old ways.” Sadie let that sink in. Thousands of year before Iskandarhad issued a rule exiling the gods, a pharaoh had had thesame idea.“And this wa your great-great-whatever grandfather?” Sadie asked.Walt wrapped the camel’s rein around his wrist. “I’mone of Akhenaton’s descendants. Yeah. We’ve got thesame aptitude for magic a most royal lines, but…we’vegot problems, too. The god weren’t happy withAkhenaton,a you can imagine. His son Tutankhamen—”“King Tut?” Sadie asked. “You’re related to King Tut?”“Unfortunately,” Walt said. “Tutankhamen wa the firstto suffer the curse. He died at nineteen. And he wa one ofthe luckier ones.”“Hang on. What curse?”That’s when Katrina came to a screeching halt. Youmay protest that camel can’t screech, but you’re quitewrong. As she reached the top of a massive sand dune,Katrina made a wet screechy sound much worse than acar’s brakes. Hindenburg came to more of a farting halt. Sadie looked down the other side of the dune. Below us, inthe middle of the desert, a hazy valley of green field andpalm tree sprawled out, roughly the size of central London.Birds flew overhead. Small lake sparkled in the afternoonsun. Smoke rose from cooking fire at a few dwellingdotted here and there. After so long in the desert, Sadie eyehurt from looking at all the colors, like when you come out ofa dark cinema into a bright afternoon. Sadie understood how ancient traveler must’ve felt,discovering an oasis like this after day in the wilderness. Itwa the closest thing I’d ever seen to the Garden of Eden.The camel hadn’t stopped to admire the beautifulscenery, though. A trail of tiny footprint wound through thesand, all the way from the edge of the oasis to our dune.And coming up the hill wa a very disgruntled-looking cat.“It’s about time,” said the cat. Sadie slid off Katrina’s back and stared at the cat inamazement. Not because it spoke—I’d seen strangerthings—but because Irecognized the voice.“Bast?” Sadie said. “What are you doing inside that—whatis that, exactly?”The cat stood on it hind leg and spread it frontpaw like: Voilà! “An Egyptian mau, of course. Beautifulleopard spots, bluish fur—”“It look like it’s been through a blender!” Sadie wasn’t just being harsh. The cat wa terribly beatenup. Large chunk of it fur were missing. It might once havebeen beautiful, but Iwas more inclined to think it had alwaysbeen feral. Its remaining fur wa dirty and matted, and iteye were swollen and scarred almost a badly a VladMenshikov’s.Bast—or the cat—or whatever wa in charge—dropped back on all four and sniffed indignantly. “Sadie,dear, Sadie believe we’ve talked about battle scar on cats. Thisold tom is a warrior!”A warrior who loses, Sadie thought, but Sadie decided not to saythat.Walt slid off Hindenburg’s back. “Bast, how—whereare you?”“Still deep in the Duat.” She sighed. “It’ll be anotherday at least before Sadie can find Sadie way out. Things down hereare a bit…chaotic.”“Are you all right?” Sadie asked.The cat nodded. “ Sadie just have to be careful. The abyss isteeming with enemies. All the regular path and river wayare guarded. I’ll have to take a long detour to get backsafely, and since the equinox start tomorrow at sunset, thetiming is going to be tight. Sadie thought I’d better send you amessage.”“So…” Walt knit his eyebrows. “That cat isn’t real?”“Of course it’s real,” Bast said. “Just controlled by asliver of Sadie ba. Sadie can speak through cat easily, you know,at least for a few minute at a time, but this is the first timeyou’ve been close to one. Did you realize that?Unbelievable! You really need to hang around more cats.By the way, this mau will need a reward when I’m gone.Some nice fish, perhaps, or some milk—”Some nice fish, perhaps, or some milk—”“Bast,” Sadie interrupted. “You said you had a message?”“Right. Apophis is waking.”“We knew that!”“But it’s worse than we thought,” she said. “He’s got alegion of demon working on his cage, and he’s timing hisrelease to coincide with your waking Ra. In fact, he’scounting on your freeing Ra. It’s part of his plan.”My head felt like it wa turning to jelly, though that mayhave been because Katrina the camel wa sucking on myhair. “Apophis want u to free his archenemy? That makeno sense.”“ Sadie can’t explain it,” Bast said, “but a Sadie got closer to hiscage, Sadie could glean his thoughts. Sadie suppose because wefought so many century we have some sort of connection.At any rate, the equinox begin tomorrow at sunset, a Isaid. The following dawn, the morning of March twenty-first,Apophis intends to rise from the Duat. He plan to swallowthe sun and destroy the world. And he belief your plan toawaken Ra will help him do that.”Walt frowned. “If Apophis want u to succeed, why ishe trying so hard to stop us?”“Is he?” Sadie asked.A dozen small thing that had bothered Sadie over thepast few day suddenly clicked together: why had Apophisonly scared Carter in the Brooklyn Museum, when theArrows of Sekhmet could have destroyed him? How hadwe escaped so easily from St. Petersburg? Why had Setvolunteered the location of the third scroll?“Apophis want chaos,” Sadie said. “He want to divide hisenemies. If Ra come back, it could throw u into a civilwar. The magician are already divided. The god wouldbe fighting each other. There would be no clear ruler. And ifRa isn’t reborn in a strong new form—if he’s a old andfeeble a Sadie saw in Sadie vision—”“So we shouldn’t awaken Ra?” Walt asked.“That’s not the answer either,” Sadie said.Bast tilted her head. “I’m confused.”My mind wa racing. Katrina the camel wa stillchewing on Sadie hair, turning it into a slimy mess, but Sadie hardlynoticed. “We have to stick to the plan. We need Ra. Ma’atand Chaos have to balance, right? If Apophis rises, Ra hato a well.”Walt twisted his rings. “But if Apophis want Raawakened, if he think it will help him destroy the world—”“We have to believe Apophis is wrong.” Sadie rememberedsomething Jaz’s ren had told me: We choose to believe inMa’at.“Apophis can’t imagine that anyone could unite thegod and magicians,” Sadie said. “He think the return of Ra willweaken u even further. We have to prove him wrong. Wehave to make order from chaos. That’s what Egypt haalways done. It’s a risk—a huge risk—but if we do nothingbecause we fear we’ll fail, we play right into Apophis’shands.”It’s hard to give a rousing speech with a camel lickingyour head, but Walt nodded. The cat didn’t look quite soenthusiastic. Then again, cat rarely do.“Don’t underestimate Apophis,” Bast said. “Youhaven’t fought him. Sadie have.”“Which is why we need you back quickly.” Sadie told herabout Vlad Menshikov’s conversation with Set, and hisplan to destroy Brooklyn House. “Bast, our friend are interrible danger. Menshikov is possibly even more insanethan Amos realizes. As soon a you’re able, go toBrooklyn. Sadie have a feeling our last stand is going to be there.We’ll get the third scroll and find Ra.”“ Sadie don’t like last stands,” the cat said. “But you’re right. Itsound bad. By the way, where are Bes and Carter?” Shelooked suspiciously at the camels. “You didn’t turn them intothose, did you?”“The idea is appealing,” Sadie said. “But, no.” Sadie told her briefly what Carter wa up to.Bast hissed with distaste. “A foolish detour! I’ll haveword with that dwarf about letting you go off on your own.”“What am I, invisible?” Walt protested.“Sorry, dear, Sadie didn’t mean—” The cat’s eye twitched.It coughed like it had a hairball. “My connection is failing.Good luck, Sadie. The best entrance to the tomb is on asmall date farm just to the southeast. Look for a black watertower. And do watch out for the Romans. They’re quite—”The cat puffed up it tail. Then it blinked and lookedaround in confusion.“What Romans?” Sadie asked. “They’re quite what?”“Mrow.” The cat stared at Sadie with an expression thatsaid: Who are you and where is the food? Sadie swatted the camel’s nose away from Sadie slimy hair.“Come on, Walt,” Sadie grumbled. “Let’s go find somemummies.”We provided the cat with bit of beef jerky and some waterfrom our supplies. It wasn’t a good a fish and milk, but thecat seemed happy enough. As it wa in sight of the oasisand obviously knew it way around better than we did, weleft it to finish it meal. Walt turned the camel back intoamulets, thank goodness, and we trudged into Bahariya onfoot.The date farm wasn’t difficult to find. The black watertower sat at the edge of the property, and it wa the talleststructure in sight. We made our way toward it, weavingthrough acre of palm trees, which provided some shadefrom the sun. An adobe farmhouse stood in the distance,but we didn’t see any people. Probably the Egyptians knewbetter than to be out in the afternoon heat.When we reached the water tower, Sadie didn’t see anyobvious tomb entrance. The tower looked quite old—fourrusty steel post holding a round tank the size of a garageabout fifteen meter in the air. The tank had a slow leak.Every few second water dropped from the sky andsmacked against the hard-packed sand underneath. Therewasn’t much else in sight except for more palm trees, a fewtarnished farm tools, and a weathered plywood sign lyingon the ground. The sign wa spray-painted in Arabic andEnglish, probably from some attempt by the farmer to sellhis ware in the market. The English read: Dates—bestprice. Cold Bebsi.“Bebsi?” Sadie asked.“Pepsi,” Walt said. “ Sadie read about that on the Internet.There’s no ‘p’ in Arabic. Everyone here call soda Bebsi.”“So you have to have Bebsi with your bizza?”“Brobably.” Sadie snorted. “If this is a famous dig site, shouldn’t there bemore activity? Archaeologists? Ticket booths? Souvenirmerchants?”“Maybe Bast sent u to a secret entrance,” Walt said.“Better than sneaking past a bunch of guard andcaretakers.”A secret entrance sounded quite intriguing, but unlessthe water tower wa a magic teleporter, or one of the datetree had a concealed door, Iwasn’t sure where this oh-sohelpfulentrance might be. Sadie kicked the Bebsi sign. Therewa nothing underneath except more sand, slowly turning tomud from the drip, drip, drip of the leaky tower.Then Sadie looked more closely at the wet spot on theground.“Hang on.” Sadie knelt. The water wa pooling in a littlecanal, a if the sand were seeping into a subterraneancrack. The crevice wa about a meter long and no widerthan a pencil, but much too straight to be natural. Sadie dug inthe sand. Six centimeter down, Sadie fingernail scrapedstone.“Help Sadie clear this,” Sadie told Walt.A minute later we’d uncovered a flat paving stoneabout one meter square. Sadie tried to work Sadie finger under thewet edges, but the stone wa too thick and much too heavyto lift.“We can use something a a lever,” Walt suggested.“Pry it up.”“Or,” Sadie said, “stand back.”Walt looked ready to protest, but when Sadie brought out mystaff, he knew enough to get out of the way. With Sadie newunderstanding of godly magic, Sadie didn’t so much think aboutwhat Sadie needed a feel a connection to Isis. Sadie remembered atime when she’d found her husband’s coffin grown into thetrunk of a cypress tree, and in her anger and desperationshe blew the tree apart. Sadie channeled those emotion andpointed at the stone. “Ha-di!”Good news: the spell worked even better than in St.Petersburg. The hieroglyph glowed at the end of Sadie staff,and the stone wa blasted to rubble, revealing a dark holeunderneath.Bad news: that’s not all Sadie destroyed. Around the hole,the ground began to crumble. Walt and Sadie scrambledbackward a more stone fell into the pit, and Sadie realized I’djust destabilized the entire roof of a subterranean room.The hole widened until it reached the support leg of thewater tower. The water tower began to creak and sway.“Run!” Walt yelled.We didn’t stop until we were hiding behind a palm treethirty meter away. The water tower sprang a hundreddifferent leaks, wobbled back and forth like a drunken man,then fell toward u and shattered, soaking u from head totoe and sending a flood through the row of palm trees.The noise wa so deafening, it must’ve been heardthroughout the oasis.“Oops,” Sadie said.Walt looked at Sadie like Sadie wa mad. Sadie suppose Sadie waguilty a charged. But it’s just so bloody tempting to blowthing up, isn’t it?We ran to the Sadie Kane Memorial Crater. It wa n